THOMSON REUTERS STREETEVENTS EDITED TRANSCRIPT ODP.OQ - Office Depot Mid-Quarter Business Update EVENT DATE/TIME: NOVEMBER 28, 2001 / 1:00PM GMT OVERVIEW: Retail sales trends improved since 3Q01 results, overall sales still negatively impacted by economic conditions, steadily improving performance across all segments, potential 4Q01 earnings upside $0.01-0.02, international businesses performance steady - high growth potential. THOMSON REUTERS STREETEVENTS | www.streetevents.com | Contact Us ©2020 Thomson Reuters. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Thomson Reuters content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Reuters. 'Thomson Reuters' and the Thomson Reuters logo are registered trademarks of Thomson Reuters and its affiliated companies. CONFERENCE CALL PARTICIPANTS EILEEN DUNN BRUCE NELSON TRANSCRIPT Editor Operator Hello and welcome to the Office Depot mid-quarter update. I would like to introduce Miss Eileen Dunn, Vice President of Investor Relations and Public Relations, who will make a few opening comments. Miss Dunn, you may begin. EILEEN DUNN Good morning. Welcome to our mid-quarter update for the fourth quarter, 2001. Before Bruce makes his comments, let me remind you that except for historical information, the matters discussed in this taped message are forward-looking within the meanings of the Product Securities Litigation Reform Act. Forward-looking statements including projections and anticipated levels of future performance involve risks and/or uncertainties which may cause actual results to differ materially from those discussed herein. These risks and uncertainties are detailed from time to time by Office Depot and are filed with the US Securities and Exchange Commission, which include and without limitation our 10 K's and 10-Q's. You are strongly urged to review such files for a more detailed discussion of such risks and uncertainties. Now, let me transfer this call over to Bruce Nelson, Office Depot's CEO. BRUCE NELSON Thanks Eileen. Thanks to everyone who is dialed in to listen to our business outlook for the fourth quarter which ends December 29, 2001. In a brief summary since we reported our third quarter results on October 17th, North America retail sales trends have somewhat improved via [unintelligible] sales particularly to our large contract customers have softened, and international sales and local currencies have held steady. As we previously stated, overall sales trends continue to be negatively impacted by a week domestic economic environment. However I am pleased to say that our 48,000 worldwide employees are continuing to find new ways to drive sales, manage and control costs, and increase shareholder returns. I continue to be encouraged by our consistently improving operating performance across all business segments. I will now make some brief comments about fourth quarter trends in each of our three reported business segments. First North America retail. Comparable retail sales so far in this quarter has slightly improved over third quarter trends, and the forecast we gave when we reported our third quarter results. Comp sales in October were in line with our estimate of high single digit negative growth, but we saw a nominal improvement in our sales trends for most of November. However, sales trends on the Friday, Saturday and Sunday after Thanksgiving were somewhat disappointing and mirrored the trends we have experienced all year. Which is weaker sales trends on weekends compared to sales during the week when most of our core small to medium size business customers shop. We believe this reflects the same weakness in consumer spending that we have seen throughout 2001. Technology and furniture rated categories continue to underperform while our core office supply business remains steady. We now anticipate compareable North America retail sales for the fourth quarter will finish in the negative 6 to 7% comp range. Which would be a modest improvement over the range we gave on our third quarters earnings call last month. On the gross margin side we are projecting gross margin improvement on a year over year basis but below third quarter levels as a result of fourth quarter merchandise mix changes, nd somewhat lower annual volume rebates from suppliers as our overall 2001 sales growth. We continue to keep tight control over expenses while at the same time improving virtually all of our customer service measurements. Turning to business services group. In our contract business, we continue to see sales negatively impacted by the weakening economy and employee layoffs in our large customer segment. In fact, contract sales have shown a further softness from our forecast last month as large businesses, in particular, have accelerated layoffs and are controlling expenses even more aggressively. Our catalog and E-Commerce businesses have been less impacted and continue to show positive growth. As a result, if current trends continue in this segment, we think fourth 2 THOMSON REUTERS STREETEVENTS | www.streetevents.com | Contact Us ©2020 Thomson Reuters. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Thomson Reuters content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Reuters. 'Thomson Reuters' and the Thomson Reuters logo are registered trademarks of Thomson Reuters and its affiliated companies. NOVEMBER 28, 2001 / 1:00PM, ODP.OQ - Office Depot Mid-Quarter Business Update quarter compareable sales growth could decline to the mid-single digit negative range for this group. BSG growth margins continue benefit from disciplined contract pricing but will also be negatively impacted by somewhat lower supplier rebates as a result of softer sales performance. We continue to see improvement in productivity and efficiency somewhat offset by a lack of leverage in warehouse and delivery fleet fixed costs. Total BSG operating costs as a percentage of sales are forecasted to be well below last year's level, continuing the improvement we have shown all year. Interestingly, the number of customers orders is rising, total lines are increasing but average ticket is declining. We are growing the number of new customers, increasing our retention of existing customers but they are buying fewer units. We see these as continued signs of a deteriorating and difficult short-term economic environment. On the international front, quarter to date sales and local currencies in our international division have continued to hold steady with strength returning to Germany one of our largest European revenue companies. At this stage in the quarter we still believe sales in U.S. dollars will be in the low double digit range for the fourth quarter. Currency while somewhat neutral in the early part of the quarter has now returned to its negative partern of earlier in the year with the Euro dropping to the mid to high 80s and the British pound hovering around the 140's range which will negatively impact the reported sales in dollars. Our highly profitable international division continues to grow faster than the European economies generally, and remains in full control over selling margins and operating costs. We are on target to begin operations in Switzerland in early 2002 and will soon announce our entry into another new European country later in 2002. International continues to be the highest growth potential of all of our businesses and we intend to continue to invest in this high return on investment segment. To summarize our retail business is showing sequential improvement in comps for the third consecutive quarter, and total company growth margins continue to improve on a year over year basis. Our international business, while still plagued by currency issues remains a constant, steady performer. Company-wide cost and quality DISCLAIMER Thomson Reuters reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes. In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized. THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON REUTERS OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS. ©2020, Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved. 562506-2020-07-15T11:23:23.847 3 THOMSON REUTERS STREETEVENTS | www.streetevents.com | Contact Us ©2020 Thomson Reuters. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Thomson Reuters content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Reuters. 'Thomson Reuters' and the Thomson Reuters logo are registered trademarks of Thomson Reuters and its affiliated companies. NOVEMBER 28, 2001 / 1:00PM, ODP.OQ - Office Depot Mid-Quarter Business Update
REFINITIV STREETEVENTS EDITED TRANSCRIPT - Q1 2002 Alexander&Baldwin Earnings Conference Call EVENT DATE/TIME: APRIL 18, 2002 / 7:00PM GMT REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us ©2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS John Kelley Alexander & Baldwin - Vice President of Investor Relations Allen Doane Alexander & Baldwin - President and CEO Jim Andrasick Alexander & Baldwin - Senior Vice Presidnt, CFO CONFERENCE CALL PARTICIPANTS Craig Seroise (ph) Keith Hanson (ph) Tom Spiro (ph) Spiro Capital Paul Patrick (ph) PRESENTATION Operator Welcome, ladies and gentlemen, to the first quarter earnings conference call. Please welcome today's speaker Mr. John Kelley, please proceed sir. John Kelley - Alexander & Baldwin - Vice President of Investor Relations Good day. This is John Kelley. With me are Allen Doane, President and CEO of Alexander and Baldwin and Jim Andrasick, the Senior VP and Chief Financial Officer. I'll do this brief introduction and then Allen will make comments about the earnings release and the outlook. Jim will comment on some of the balance sheet, cash flow and other financial matters. I'll do a quick review of some items on the economy and then we'll open for questions. I'd like to thank everyone for participating. If anyone is having trouble hearing, you can hit star zero and you'll get help. You should have received this morning a copy of the earnings release and a reminder of the call by e-mail. If you did not, please call me office and you can get a copy right away. Or you can download a copy from the Web site where it's posted, as soon it crosses the wires. Just a reminder, this is the 47th regularly scheduled conference call for A&B. And it's the 6th we've Web cast. And as you may know, a replay is available both on the Web and for those calling in live using the number on your invitation. I'm always happy to take individual questions later. We just changed it to a six hour net time difference with the East Coast with daylight savings time, so you might want to make note of that. If that causes a problem, please get in touch with my e-mail or voice-mail. Earnings release are normally on the third Wednesday following the close of the quarter and after the close of after hour trading. So our second quarter release will be on July 17th. Statements in the call today that set forth our expectations or predictions are based on facts and situations that are known to us as of today the 18th of April. Actual results may differ materially due to risks and uncertainties such as those we describe on page 19 on the Form 10-K in our 2001 annual report. I'd like to remind listeners of our Web site, www.AlexanderBaldwin.com and it's links to our subsidiaries, as well as the State Department of Business, Economic Development and Tourism Web site which is quite useful in keeping track of economic information. With that I'd like turn the conference call to Allen, Doane, our CEO. 2 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us ©2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. APRIL 18, 2002 / 7:00PM, - Q1 2002 Alexander&Baldwin Earnings Conference Call Allen? Allen Doane - Alexander & Baldwin - President and CEO Thank you, John. I'm going to just briefly comment on the income statement. And then turn it over to Jim Andrasick to talk about cash flow balance sheet and other related issues. We did expect as we've noted publicly prior to this a poor first quarter at Matson and that's basically what happened. We did perform slightly better than our plan both at Matson and at A&B and Aggregate for the quarter. We are forecasting results to improve for A&B in the next quarter and for the remainder of the year. Let me first talk about Matson and talk about where we're going. First, we had deferred because of difficult economic circumstances in Hawaii, a rate increase that we would normally put into effect earlier in the year. We have announced a rate increase and it was effective April 14th at 2.75 percent. And that should help us as we forward in the year. I would also note second that we have just announced an increase in the fuel surcharge from 3.25 to 4.75 percent. There's a relatively unstable situation I'm sure as you know in the are of oil prices. We averaged $17 per barrel during the first quarter of this year. However, the last stop at the gas pump so to speak was at $26. We don't expect that it's going to stay at that level, but nonetheless there has been a very significant increase in oil prices recently. I would also just note, that on the positive side that volume trends at Matson are up. January and February were both quite weak, but March was better and April is starting our pretty well. In terms of the two components of our freight package, containers are doing pretty well which is most of our business, but the auto business that you will note commented in the report, it was down 23 percent year over year our shipment of autos. And that is still relatively soft. So those are just some top line things that are happening at Matson. I would also just for your information, note that we have implemented a reduction in the vessel serving Hawaii from eight to seven in January. We'll get the full benefit of that in the second quarter. If our cargo volume does return later on in the year, we may go back up to eight vessels, but for the moment we're down to a seven vessel fleet to Hawaii. We're seeing increased productivity at our Sand Island Terminal in Hawaii. I would characterize it as better but not good enough. Still a drag on Matson's performance. There are improvements that are occurring. The efficiencies are getting better, but we still have a way to go there. And that's going to be another area where we should expect to see improvement in both our efficiencies and our cost structure as the year goes along. Other than that, I would just finally note for Matson that we also expect to see gains at our affiliate for the rest of the year which should help our income. Just to summarize, we did have a very touch fourth quarter, a difficult first quarter. We expect that there will be some substantial improvement in the second quarter and beyond at Matson. And we're certainly working very hard to make that happen. In the real estate business basically everything is at or above our plans for 2002. I can say that just for prospective purposes that we've had 10 years of never having missed a plan in real estate. So I think that business is going to do pretty much what we think it's going to do for the year. In the leasing area, commercial properties, there's been some softness in occupancy, but again we've anticipated that. We expect that as the year goes along we'll probably see some pick ups there. We had a very good property sales quarter compared to a great sales quarter that we had last year, but it will still very good. We sold and industrial property portfolio in Dallas and a number of small Hawaii properties in the quarter. 3 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us ©2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. APRIL 18, 2002 / 7:00PM, - Q1 2002 Alexander&Baldwin Earnings Conference Call The only area where there's a little bit of weakness is in some of the resort development activities that we have in Hawaii. If you've go a resort project and it's basically in a launch or a sale at least up phase things are slow, but that represents a small component of our capital in the neighborhood of about, 6, 7 percent of the total capital that's in the business. So it's a relatively small exposure but there are some short term reductions in meeting some of our objectives there but it's certainly containable. In the food products area the investment there is principally our sugar plantation on Maui. We have a residual, small interest now of about $12 million or so in C&H sugar refinery in California, but it's mostly the agricultural business on Maui in sugar. Sugar prices have dropped recently. However, we've priced forward about 14 percent of our crops so far at pretty good prices. We'll see what happens to the rest of the group as the year goes on. We think that prices will probably firm. But we're also no in the business of projecting commodity prices all that well either. I would say on a positive note, that the farming bill which is sort of the structure under which our sugar business operates, the expectation is quite positive. And high that there will be a renewal of farm legislation which will provide stability and probably a little bit of an improved pricing environment for sugar over a number of years in the future. It's still caught up in Congress right now, but that will probably be passed some time in the next few months. In terms of the company's development and acquisition activity. We continue to work on several large projects and activities. We are getting close to a decision on what would be the purchase of two vessels that are being constructed for our container operations to Hawaii. We're not quite there yet but we're relatively close to a decision on that. This would be in excess as we've noted before of $100 million per vessel but not too much in excess of $100 million per vessel if we were to make that decision. We are also expecting to complete, and when we do, announce a longer term real estate development venture with a partner in Hawaii. On the acquisition front, it's been publicly reported in Hawaii that Victoria Ward has reached an agreement to sell. We were apart of the process. We were not ultimately the party that they decided to go forward with. And partly, I guess that was because the price go to a point where we were not comfortable that it was a good investment for Alexander & Baldwin. There's a tendency to sometimes chase things beyond a point where it makes good economic sense, so we pushed away from the table at a point in the process. And it appears the General Growth will be owner of the Victoria Ward portfolio in Honolulu. We are also involved in some other acquisition activity which we're not able to really comment on at this time, but we're quite active in looking for value driven investments for the company. So with that, I would just make two final points. One, we've had a - there's an accounting change that has occurred which has not changed in any material way the results of the company, but it has changed in some respects how we report these results in real estate and Jim Andrasick will talk about that in a moment. I would also note that John Kelley is going to talk about the economy of Hawaii. And it certainly looks like the projections are getting much, much better. In fact, the gross product for the states there's been quite an optimistic upward adjustment to what the economic circumstances are for Hawaii for the remainder of the year. And John will comment on that. So with that, I'll turn it over to you Jim. Jim Andrasick - Alexander & Baldwin - Senior Vice Presidnt, CFO Thank you very much, Allen. First, if I can just turn to the P&L on page five and comment on a couple of items. The treasury environment, of course is very favorable. If I could just point out on the interest expense line we are down 2.8 million in expenses, which is about 50 percent from the prior year's quarter. And we've had a following wind on this on rates as everyone is aware all year long. 4 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us ©2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. APRIL 18, 2002 / 7:00PM, - Q1 2002 Alexander&Baldwin Earnings Conference Call Our average rate for the first quarter of 2002 is 4.2 percent. That's on all borrowings, fixed in floating, compared to a prior year's quarter of 6.6 percent. And about half of this is a result of the reduction in expense was lower volumes, $85 million in lower average balances and about half was due to rate. So good performance there. On the corporate expense line we're down 800,000. We had a non reoccurrence this year of the charitable contribution of stock in 2001, as well as about 300,000 in absolute reductions in G&A which the result of various management initiatives to control cost. Let me add, the income tax line, and I know many of you haven't probably taken the effect rate or computed that, but you will know that last year's first quarter we used an effective rate of 35.5 percent. This year, it's up to 38 percent. That's a pretty large increase, so I thought I would comment on that. Part of it is the result of not taking some large charitable deductions for low basis stock that was contributed last year. Part of it is a dividend received deduction that we got on investments last year which will not - since we have sold those investments, that will not reoccur. And also we had a roll off of various low income housing and tax credits late in 2001, which will not reoccur in 2002. At least we're not projecting that they will. I need to comment as Alan said on discontinued operations because for presentation purposes we have broken out properties and agriculture separately. And as our press release stated, the new standard of accounting for disposal of long lived assets now treats the sale of certain income producing assets, even individual building as discontinued operations if their earnings and cash flows are separately identifiable and they're material to results. I think, as everyone recognizes, the standards of materiality have gone down considerably, both in the SEC's eyes and public accounting eyes. We had two sales in the first quarter that qualified under these rules and that contributed 4.3 million which was treated on an after tax basis. And we've attempted to continue to give you information in the revenue and operating profit lines which shows comparable year performance and treated these discontinued operations as a deduct from both revenue and operating profit. But this will have an effect on our property sales activities going forward. In that we will have to declare in advance properties that maybe put up for sale and have buyers identified. The other thing I would point out is that in this first quarter's activity, the proceeds from those land sales sold about 30 million. You can see that as the deduction from revenues. And all of those monies were held in escrow pending reinvestment in qualified 10-31 replacement properties which has been A&B's long standing practice. Turning to the balance sheet and cash flows, really there were only three events that explain most of the account changes in the first quarter beyond the normal ebb and flow of seasonal working capital changes. The first was a payment of $38 million tax bill, U.S. federal tax bill which - in the first quarter which was the result of our bank stock sale late last year. This reduced current liabilities and of course impacted operating cash flow. Another event was the sale by Matson of two vessels to a minority affiliate. These ships had been under charger to that affiliate with an option to buy. That option was exercised. And at year end 2001 those vessels had been held in current assets for disposition. The cash proceeds of about 16 million from that sale were contributed to the capital construction fund which closed that account balance . And finally the third event, as I previously noted is property sales. That reduced the property net account by about $25 million. And the cash proceeds were placed in escrow for reinvestment which is carried in other assets that in term explains the $30 million increase in that account. Overall results was a net requirement to borrow about 44 million against that revolving credit facilities and which is shown in the increase in debt, and also as a source of funds and cash flow. 5 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us ©2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. APRIL 18, 2002 / 7:00PM, - Q1 2002 Alexander&Baldwin Earnings Conference Call I would just comment on two other areas. Capital expenditures as shown in the cash flow were down considerable year-over-year. We spent 8.2 million in the first quarter. And most of the decline was at Matson where we have either - we have deferred equipment purchases and throttled back consistent with our earnings performance. The second point would be on, which we discussed at our last call, is on pension credits and debits. In prior years, the company has reported income from it's over funding in effect of it's pension obligation. That over funding continues - continues through the first quarter. However, it's not at the same level as previous years. And that in tern results in a lower level of pension credits year over year. So last year we picked up about six to seven million in favorable income pre tax. This year, we're projecting about break even to one million. So those credits which are none cash impact on earnings will decline. I would just make a final comment if I may on transparency. A&D has no special purpose entities. The full extent of our guarantees and other commitments is disclosed in our annual reported and in the 10-k on page 24 just as a reference. But let me just quickly restate what our position is. We do have letters of credit out standing and performance bonds. At year end 2001, those totaled about 26 million, that's been reduced to 22 million as a result of the release of various performance bonds against real estate projects. And we do guarantee the debt of two affiliate companies in the aggregate 46.5 million at year end 2001. That is unchanged at quarter end. So we finally report the company continues to be in excellent financial health. And with that, I will turn it to John Kelley. John Kelley - Alexander & Baldwin - Vice President of Investor Relations Thanks, Jim. In the all important psychologically as well as from a solid economic point of view visitor industry trends continue to improve. I think many of you have read some articles in the eastern press noting that mainland visitors are back nearly to normal, that is pre 9-11 levels. But visitors from Japan or other from other international areas continue to lag. In the January and February numbers which came out since our last call, the total number of arrivals were down 16.5 percent in January and about 9 percent in February. The March numbers aren't out yet. And if you split those in January, people on domestic sights were down 8.4 percent, and in February they are two-tenths of 1 percent. So a good trend there. International arrivals were down 28.8 percent in January. And now they've improved the decline of 24.7 percent by February. In the visitor days that is the more relevant economic measure that dwells high in the economic contribution, in January visitor days were down about 13 percent and that had come up to a decline of just 5 percent in February. If you look at the most recent period in the seven days ending the ninth of April, which is the most recent domestic data available, domestic rivals were at 91 percent of prior comparable period levels. And looking just at Japan in the seven days ending the 10th of April, Japanese travelers were at 82 percent of their prior year level and that's down from a 95 percent level they'd reached earlier in the month. So the domestic travelers continue to show strength. Japan continues to lag, but the improvement is gratifying. In terms of Hawaii's own economic measures, some of the leading indicators and other things we've talked about are still not reflecting all of the improvements. There's a lot of noise in the data. But if you look at some of the physical factors that drive demand and provide visitors, airline seats are probably one of the most noteworthy. And the employee visitor and convention bureau reported the other day that there are about 400, 000 new seats have been announced in calendar year '02. And that's in addition to about almost 190,000 seats that have been restored since suspensions following 9-11. And particularly - in particular Hawaiian airlines announced direct service to Ontario, California and Sacramento, and in October they'll be starting direct service to Phoenix. So some of the air carriers here are reaching out to mainland destinations. In addition, the more traditional carriers like united, just announced two weekly Denver to Honolulu non stops. And in June they're going to add two - a second domestic flight from San Francisco direct to Konan, the big island, with a 757. 6 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us ©2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. APRIL 18, 2002 / 7:00PM, - Q1 2002 Alexander&Baldwin Earnings Conference Call In addition to American airlines in mid June it's going to add daily service, a second daily flight from Los Angeles direct to the island of Kauai. So I think what's happening is that the demands, especially from the mainland is being read loud and clear in the airline industry and they're responding. On the economic front, unemployment levels in Hawaii are improving slightly. February's most recent data available it's 4.7 percent unemployment rate. That was a slight improvement from 4.8 in January and five in December. Hawaii continues to look better on that measure than the U.S. February for the U.S. of course was 6.1 percent. I think if you step back from the numbers, let me read you a short overview from a set of economists at the university of Hawaii. I think this more or less says it all. And these guys are as an unbiased as you can get from the academic point of view. Headline is brief recession likely over. And they go on to say "outside of tourism, the state has weathered the current slow down fairly well. Job losses have been significant but the labor markets appears to have turned the corner. Hawaii will likely experience only a mild and short lived recession in real personal income with year over year growth resuming in the second quarter of '02. Economic recovery will strengthen as the year proceeds." And they go on in the article to say there are really only two significant risk factors, one is uncertainty over the state of economics affairs in Japan. And the second of course is the unrest in the Middle East, which could trip a lot of things going the other direction. And when you take these things together, the present forecast for visitor arrivals by the state agency responsible projections is for an improvement of 3.5 percent in 2002. And that follows the decline of 9 percent in 2001. On the personal income front, the state's projecting about a 1.3 percent real increase in personal income in '02. And that's an improvement over their prior figures. And in their real gross state product projection there, now as Allen stated 1.7 percent for '02. And then 2 percent and around 2 percent thereafter in '03. And that contrasts with about 1.4 percent projected for the actuals in 2001. So I think we're looking at relatively modest economic growth, but you've got to take into account that we've got one weak quarter in '02. So those numbers actually reflected fairly rapid and reasonably strong turnaround. I think the fact is from an operating leverage point of view that's exactly the kind of environment we can flourish in. So with that, I'd like to step back from our monologue if you will and open it to questions-and-answers. So operator if you would explain the ground rules for using the phones for Q&A. QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS Operator Certainly, sir. Thank you very much, Mr. Kelley. For those of you who have a question that was one-four on your touch-tone phone at this time. Now, please keep in mind, that if you're using a speakerphone, you must pick up your handset to press one-four to register in our question-and-answer line up. Once again, for those of you who have questions, please press one four on your touch-tone phone now. Thank you very much, sir. And it looks like our first question is going to come from a Mr. Craig Seroise (ph) . Please proceed, sir. Craig Seroise Good morning, to you guys. I've all ready had a long day, but good morning out there. One thing I'd like, if you can, qualify - quantify the 15 million drop in the operating income at Matson. Can you separate out what was ship operations? And what might have been due to the Sand Island pick up I guess it was? 7 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us ©2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. APRIL 18, 2002 / 7:00PM, - Q1 2002 Alexander&Baldwin Earnings Conference Call Allen Doane - Alexander & Baldwin - President and CEO Yeah, I - this is Allen, I can give you some general direction - really all that specific, Craig (ph) . It's a good question. The terms of the variance for the quarter, market factors represented about $5 million of the variance strictly the market. That would be Hawaii and the Guam market. In very general terms there was about a $3 million reduction because of a share change versus the competition. And part of that had to do with the fact that our service levels are low. So it wasn't just a matter of pricing. It was just that because of some of the problems that we had we've lost some business here from what had been a historically share that the Matson had had. So that's about another three million. We've got about 2.5 million of inefficiencies at Sand Island. We have about $1 million of unusual bad debt, almost all of which is due to Kmart. We have about a $1 million, Jim mentioned the pension credit issues, about $1 million of the pension credit change year-over-year. About $600,000 reduction in our affiliate performance, which brings you up to about $13 million of the variances. You've got a couple of million dollars which is everything else. Inflationary increase is offset by improvements because we have fewer vessels and other benefits that have been achieved. Craig Seroise Thanks. That's good detail. That's more than I expected without your Matson guys there. Now ... Allen Doane - Alexander & Baldwin - President and CEO I don't know if that's a compliment or not. Craig Seroise It's a compliment. The Sand Island, what's needed there to improve the efficiency? It this is volume cargo thing or have other things been identified? Allen Doane - Alexander & Baldwin - President and CEO It's really not volume driven. It's just after decades of using one approach is how the terminal has operated. They mad a conversion about two-thirds of the way last year. It turned out that it's been not only from a technical standpoint but management and labor standpoint much, much more significant transition than the company had originally anticipated. So the shake down period here is taking a while. We're seeing improvement, for example we had in the first quarter, just one of the ratios, and I mean it's not really very god right now. The first quarter we were getting off of our cranes about 17.2 moves an hour. We expected that we wanted to be getting about 21, that was our objective. But by the end of the quarter, we were operating at slightly above 18. So there was a trend upward, but as I in general terms indicated at the beginning, while we're seeing progress, we're still not hitting the objective that had been established. And it's not one or two things. It's a list of like 20 or 30 different issues that deal with different practices and how the shifts are unloaded and then reloaded when they leave. But we're making progress. It's the biggest change that this part of the company has had in decades. It also involved things like global positioning systems and things that just don't necessarily come all that easy to an operating business. So it's an absolutely, revolutionary change that we probably, certainly did underestimate the challenges of just launching as well as we wanted to. 8 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us ©2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. APRIL 18, 2002 / 7:00PM, - Q1 2002 Alexander&Baldwin Earnings Conference Call Craig Seroise Thanks. Now you mentioned the bad debt due to Kmart. Did they - on the property side, did they lease any properties from you? I know Wal-Mart has a Hawaii property. Allen Doane - Alexander & Baldwin - President and CEO Yeah. The answer to that is that we sold approximately two years ago a Kmart property that we had owned. So on the leasing side, there is no exposure. On the operating side, we actually did pretty well relative to the size of business we have with Kmart in terms of our recovery of the receivables. It's just that we weren't able to recover all. Craig Seroise OK. And just the capital - the cap ex budget for this year. If you buy those ships that you were - referred to, would that be this year or would that be going into more next year? Allen Doane - Alexander & Baldwin - President and CEO You can assume that there will be modest at best and perhaps zero but very, very little capital impact in the year 2002 from any vessel construction activity. Craig Seroise OK. Then what's the plan for '01 without that possibility? Allen Doane - Alexander & Baldwin - President and CEO The plan for '01? Or the plan for '02? Craig Seroise I mean '02, excuse me. Allen Doane - Alexander & Baldwin - President and CEO Yeah. We have a plan that has about $120 million of capital spending in it. Craig Seroise OK. Allen Doane - Alexander & Baldwin - President and CEO That involves a massive and a fairly low level of 25 to $30 million. We got our real estate business in at about $80 million and our agribusiness in at about $10 million. Now of the $80 million we have in the real estate business, you can assume that about half of that or maybe even a little big 9 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us ©2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. APRIL 18, 2002 / 7:00PM, - Q1 2002 Alexander&Baldwin Earnings Conference Call more is what we would call growth acquisition activity. So it's not replacement or project spending it's acquisition activity that we put in our budget for the year. Craig Seroise OK. That were - that would seem to indicate to me that there's going to be a lot more spending in the - as the year progresses than there was in the first quarter which was pretty low, but that's OK. Allen Doane - Alexander & Baldwin - President and CEO That's correct. Craig Seroise Yeah. And then for Jim, is that 38 percent tax rate good for the year? Jim Andrasick - Alexander & Baldwin - Senior Vice Presidnt, CFO That is our latest projection based on everything we know about full year estimates, yes. Craig Seroise OK. One final one I have for you if it could. Let's see if I - I'm not an accountant I don't know if I understand this new rules here. Does this mean that every time there's a real estate sale that you might have to report discontinued operations for the quarter? This could get messy if that's the case. Jim Andrasick - Alexander & Baldwin - Senior Vice Presidnt, CFO Well the technical answer is yet if it's material. And if, as we do with just about all of our income properties, we track them from revenues and cost standpoints separately. So yes, this is a very messy rule for a company like Alexander & Baldwin. Craig Seroise Right. Jim Andrasick - Alexander & Baldwin - Senior Vice Presidnt, CFO I know the REITs are struggling with it too. And we're all going to be very interested and see how, you know, various companies interpret this who are in the real estate business. Craig Seroise OK. Me too. OK. Thanks a lot. 10 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us ©2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. APRIL 18, 2002 / 7:00PM, - Q1 2002 Alexander&Baldwin Earnings Conference Call Allen Doane - Alexander & Baldwin - President and CEO I would just make one comment on that. Jim mentioned it earlier on, but the strange aspect of this is that we will sell a property for example for $25 million. We will then put the proceeds from that which we have done historically consistently into escrow, we will exchange it on a tax deferred basis into another property. So we consider the sale as a continued operation. But from a practical standpoint, we've had a history of reinvesting into other properties the proceeds from our sales. Craig Seroise Right. That hasn't... Allen Doane - Alexander & Baldwin - President and CEO So it's a very difficult accounting rule for us. Craig Seroise Yes, well that hasn't changed. My difficulty is trying to explain that to maybe some investors that don't understand but that's my problem. OK. So thanks a lot. Jim Andrasick - Alexander & Baldwin - Senior Vice Presidnt, CFO It has the practical effect of making total operating profit far less meaningful than it used to be. Craig Seroise Yeah. Jim Andrasick - Alexander & Baldwin - Senior Vice Presidnt, CFO But we have made an effort to provide you the information in a way that you can see it on the old basis and also see the adjustments. Craig Seroise Right. Jim Andrasick - Alexander & Baldwin - Senior Vice Presidnt, CFO And as long as we're able to we'll continue to do that. Craig Seroise OK. Thank you very much and have a good day. 11 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us ©2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. APRIL 18, 2002 / 7:00PM, - Q1 2002 Alexander&Baldwin Earnings Conference Call Jim Andrasick - Alexander & Baldwin - Senior Vice Presidnt, CFO Thanks, Craig (ph) . Allen Doane - Alexander & Baldwin - President and CEO Thanks, Craig (ph) . Operator And our next question comes from Mr. Keith Hanson (ph) Please proceed, sir. Keith Hanson Aloha from Sunny, Columbus. Thank you for the additional disclosure. Allen Doane - Alexander & Baldwin - President and CEO That is Ohio. Keith Hanson It is Ohio, that's right. It's supposed to cool off by the weekend but I guess we're enjoying it this week. The question I had was is there going to be any impact on Matson from a potential work disruption in the west coast? Allen Doane - Alexander & Baldwin - President and CEO Yeah, that's a good question, a very good question. I can give you the stock response we don't know and we hope not. From a practical standpoint, this is the every three year reopening of the contract with the IOWU first on the west coast and then in Hawaii. The big issue this year is the use of technology on the - at the terminals. And I don't think anyone really knows how difficult an issue that is going to be between the union and the various management organizations that are involved on the other side. We hope that there won't be any disruptions. Normally, what happens is that instead of a strike there have been some slow downs in the past. And those are difficult to deal with as well. So, you know, it's really hard to say what's going to happen. The hope is that everything will be settled in a reasonable manner as the contract expires at the end of June. Keith Hanson OK. Thank you. Jim Andrasick - Alexander & Baldwin - Senior Vice Presidnt, CFO We do bargain as an industry, Keith. So it's the whole coast at once, one employer group, one labor group. 12 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us ©2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. APRIL 18, 2002 / 7:00PM, - Q1 2002 Alexander&Baldwin Earnings Conference Call Keith Hanson OK. Operator Thank you. And our next question comes from Mr. Tom Spiro (ph) . Please proceed sir. Tom Spiro - Spiro Capital Tom Spiro (ph) , Spiro Capital (ph) , hello? Allen Doane - Alexander & Baldwin - President and CEO Hi, Tom (ph) . Jim Andrasick - Alexander & Baldwin - Senior Vice Presidnt, CFO Hi, Tom (ph) . Tom Spiro - Spiro Capital Hello. Could you update us please on the potential entrant of one or more new competitors into the Matson line of business, yes, Pasha (ph) and the second potential competitor? Allen Doane - Alexander & Baldwin - President and CEO Yeah, there's really - we didn't say anything about this. We've talked about this during the last two or three calls. And you're probably wondering why we haven't mentioned it in this call and that's basically because there is absolutely no new information. The ship that was partially - it was under construction partially built. It was involved in a bankruptcy action, a ship yard. And it's sitting at the same state of completion that it was about nine months ago. So we don't know whether that ship will ever be completed. There's speculation that it won't but we can't say. So that's where things are with Pasha which was the entrant into the Hawaii service that was most imminent. There's been an announcement made by a group, it calls itself Santa Maria. And we haven't heard anything about them in quite a while. So they had planned to secure financing relative to coming into the Hawaii market. The - what's happened with this Pasha vessel and also the fact that there's something called American classic crews which had $300 million plus of government loans that's going upside down on a cruise line that serves Hawaii. It might make it a little bit more difficult from a political standpoint for these things to be financed but we really don't know. So at this point, the reason it wasn't brought up today is that there's absolutely no information that would make for any changes. Tom Spiro - Spiro Capital Thanks a lot. 13 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us ©2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. APRIL 18, 2002 / 7:00PM, - Q1 2002 Alexander&Baldwin Earnings Conference Call Allen Doane - Alexander & Baldwin - President and CEO You're welcome, Tom (ph) . Operator And once again, for those of you who have a question, that was one four on your touch-tone phone. Thank you. And our next question comes from Mr. Paul Patrick (ph) , please proceed sir. Paul Patrick Hi, good morning. Allen Doane - Alexander & Baldwin - President and CEO Hi, Paul (ph) . Paul Patrick A question on Matson, you talked about service difficulties and it sounds like it might be something separate from Sand Island. Is that the case? And can you talk about why it's going on? Allen Doane - Alexander & Baldwin - President and CEO No, it's mostly Sand Island. I mean they're all - these are service disruptions. The service disruptions increase in the winter, but that's sort of you sail the same seas that everyone does. So your ship arrival on time percentage has a tendency to go down during the winter season, but that goes down for everybody. The principal problem is the Sand Island problem. Paul Patrick OK. And you also talked about pricing pressure from I guess it's the CSX is that - is there anything new? Is there any reason behind that? I know that they heard that they are getting - are looking to be sold. I don't know if that would have anything to do with it? Allen Doane - Alexander & Baldwin - President and CEO Yeah, I didn't say anything about pricing pressure from CSX. Paul Patrick You said pricing pressure as a cause of the decline in the business at Matson. 14 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us ©2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. APRIL 18, 2002 / 7:00PM, - Q1 2002 Alexander&Baldwin Earnings Conference Call Allen Doane - Alexander & Baldwin - President and CEO No, I really didn't. Paul Patrick Oh, you didn't? Allen Doane - Alexander & Baldwin - President and CEO If I did I apologize for saying that. You know, in this business it's just about like every other semi commodity business, you've got a lot of punching and pulling going on an a day to day basis. They - CSX is pretty competitive now on pricing but that is not a principal factor for what is - what's happened on the performance side. Paul Patrick OK. Jim Andrasick - Alexander & Baldwin - Senior Vice Presidnt, CFO And both carriers have made general REIT decisions recently. And both carriers have in their own ways redefined their bunker surcharges. So I think we're - that's really not a practical problem. Paul Patrick Great. And then one question on the property leasing, the margins were down considerably year-over-year is there any explanation behind that? Allen Doane - Alexander & Baldwin - President and CEO Yeah, the margins are down a little bit. It's a little bit occupancy and we - it's a bit of a few one timers. Our plans for the year show that, you know, that we're going to be OK for the full year. That we're going to have a pretty good performance. We had about a 6 percent blip year-over-year decline in the first quarter. But there's really nothing that's all that remarkable or unusual happening in our portfolio. We're very diversified. But we're diversified on the mainland which - west coast, which has had it's own, you know, set of economic challenges until recently and then in Hawaii. So we're showing weaknesses in the portfolio but it's not that significant. And we're not - we're just not that concerned about. Paul Patrick Great. Thank you. Operator Once again, for those of you who have a question that was one four. 15 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us ©2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. APRIL 18, 2002 / 7:00PM, - Q1 2002 Alexander&Baldwin Earnings Conference Call Allen Doane - Alexander & Baldwin - President and CEO Well if there are no further questions at this point, we'll close off the call. And we thank you all for participating. And look forward to seeing you or talking to you in the future. Aloha. DISCLAIMER Refinitiv reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes. In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized. THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES REFINITIV OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS. ©2020, Refinitiv. All Rights Reserved. 608796-2020-08-12T07:11:52.603 16 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us ©2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. APRIL 18, 2002 / 7:00PM, - Q1 2002 Alexander&Baldwin Earnings Conference Call
THOMSON REUTERS STREETEVENTS EDITED TRANSCRIPT ANEN.O^B14 - Q3 2002 Anaren Microwave Earnings Conference Call EVENT DATE/TIME: APRIL 25, 2002 / 9:00PM GMT OVERVIEW: Anaren Microwave's net sales for 3Q02 were $19.8m, and operating income was $551,000. Net income for 3Q02 was $945,000 or $0.04 per diluted share. Anticipates net sales to be in the range of $19-21m and diluted EPS to be in the range of $0.03-0.05 for 4Q02. THOMSON REUTERS STREETEVENTS | www.streetevents.com | Contact Us ©2020 Thomson Reuters. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Thomson Reuters content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Reuters. 'Thomson Reuters' and the Thomson Reuters logo are registered trademarks of Thomson Reuters and its affiliated companies. CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS Lawrence Sala Anaren Microwave Incorporated - President and CEO Joe Porcello Anaren Microwave Incorporated - Vice President of Finance CONFERENCE CALL PARTICIPANTS Mark Mischeka (ph) Bank of America Securities Rich Alera (ph) Edenman Dale Faha (ph) CIBC World Markets Tom Laview (ph) Robertson Stevens Cliff Maldonado (ph) RBC Capital PRESENTATION Operator Please stand by, we're about to begin. Good day, everyone, and welcome to the end of the third quarter earnings release. Today's call is being recorded. At this time for introductions and opening remarks, I will turn the call over to Mr. Larry Sala, President and Chief Executive Officer of Anaren Microwave Incorporated. Please go ahead, sir. Lawrence Sala - Anaren Microwave Incorporated - President and CEO Thank you. Good afternoon, and thanks for participating in the Anaren Microwave eighth fiscal 2002 third quarter conference call. And we're joined today by Joe Porcello, our Vice President of Finance. I'm going to begin by reading a cautionary statement relative to forward-looking information. I will the provide the overview of the results of the third quarter, ended March 31, 2002, after which Joe Porcello will review the financial highlights. And then we'll take your questions. The statements contained in this conference call which are not in historical information are forward looking statements. The statements involve risk and uncertainty that could cause actual results to differ materially from those discussed. Such factors include, but are not limited to, current unfavorable wireless market conditions, additional decline in demands from company products, increased pricing pressure from our customers, decreased capital expenditures by wireless service providers, difficulties and unanticipated expense of and newly required businesses, the difficulty in becoming requalified by customers, unpredictable difficulties or delays in the development of new products, risks associated with any technological shifts away from company technologies or , unanticipated impairment of assets or investment values, informed currency fluctuations. You're first (ph) to review Anaren's annual report, and Anaren's form 10-K, as amended for the fiscal year, ended June 30, 2001. And you can with the Securities and Exchange Commission to learn more about the various risks and uncertainties facing Anaren's business and their potential impact in Anaren sales and earnings. Anaren disclaims any intention or obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements. Net sales for the quarter were $19.8 million dollars, down nine percent in the third quarter of last year, but up 15 percent sequentially from the quarter of fiscal 2002. 2 THOMSON REUTERS STREETEVENTS | www.streetevents.com | Contact Us ©2020 Thomson Reuters. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Thomson Reuters content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Reuters. 'Thomson Reuters' and the Thomson Reuters logo are registered trademarks of Thomson Reuters and its affiliated companies. APRIL 25, 2002 / 9:00PM, ANEN.O^B14 - Q3 2002 Anaren Microwave Earnings Conference Call Operating income for the quarter was compared to operating and income of $2.4 million for the third quarter of last year, and a $1.8 million operating loss in the second quarter of fiscal 2002, excluding the results of Fithem (ph) and Ametron, which enter acquired effective October 1st, and October 30th versus 2001 respectively, and would have had sales of $17.3 million and an operating income of $1.8 million dollars, down 21 percent and 25 percent respectively from the third quarter last year, and up 16 percent, and 103 percent sequentially from the second quarter of fiscal 2002. Net income from the third quarter was $945,000, or four cents per diluted share, compared to $2.2 million or 12 cents per diluted share in the third quarter of last year, and a loss of two cents per diluted share for the second quarter of 2002. Prior to the extraordinary gain, the improvement in profitability over the second quarter was a result of increased ad sales and improved efficiency at a Syracuse operations. Manufacturing yields, and operating performance of during the third quarter were also better than anticipated. The growth in the third quarter, over the second quarter, was driven by group. Wireless group would acquire over $13.4 million, up 26 percent sequentially from the second quarter. Eliminating the impact of the acquisitions of Fithen (ph) and Ametron, Wireless Group net sales increased 30 percent sequentially from the second quarter. The growth of Wireless Group net sales was the result of increased marketing share of component products in several of our leading manufacturers. And resumption of demand for our Adrena-line (ph) for three G amplifier application. Wireless Group customer concentration for the quarter as a percent of Wireless Group net sales was at 18 percent, Ericsson at 17 percent, Lucent at 10 percent, and Motorola at 90 percent. We continue to impressively invest in new product development for wireless infrastructure, and wireless applications. New products last quarter have been well received in the market, and more than a dozen new ones have already been achieved. Sample requests for new design applications continue to be very robust. For the space and defense group, net sales for the third quarter were $6.5 million, up 14 percent from net sales of $5.6 million for the third quarter of last year. for the quarter with $5.9 million, driven by follow-on orders from jamming sub-systems and initial funding for Antennae Distribution Networks for a ground based radio program. March 31, 2002, was approximately $35.1 million. Third quarter made some substantial progress in establishing a presence in China to better serve the Asian market. We now have a facility in China, and the associated licensing to support our product's sales, design, manufacturing and distribution. We have also hired the management, sales and engineering team to support this effort. We anticipate initiating production at our China facility during the first quarter of fiscal 2003. Joe Porcello will now review the financial highlights. Joe Porcello - Anaren Microwave Incorporated - Vice President of Finance Good afternoon. The financial highlights of the third quarter income statement, the 50,000 through our column. The gross profit margin for the third quarter of fiscal 2002 was 32.1 percent. This is a 6.2 percent point increase from gross margin of 25.09 percent in the second quarter of this 2002, and a three point two percentage point decrease from the gross margins of 35.3 percent in the third quarter of fiscal 2001. The improvement of gross margins from the second to the third quarter of fiscal 2002 came from the overall increase in sales volume and from crafts and performance at 5M, whose manufacturing facility is now fully operational from the July fire. Including the private and the current acquisitions, growth margins were 39.2 percent for the third quarter of 2002 compared to margins of 36.2 percent of the second quarter and margins of 35.3 percent in the third quarter of last year. 3 THOMSON REUTERS STREETEVENTS | www.streetevents.com | Contact Us ©2020 Thomson Reuters. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Thomson Reuters content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Reuters. 'Thomson Reuters' and the Thomson Reuters logo are registered trademarks of Thomson Reuters and its affiliated companies. APRIL 25, 2002 / 9:00PM, ANEN.O^B14 - Q3 2002 Anaren Microwave Earnings Conference Call Investment in research and development presented net sales with nine percent in the third quarter of 2002 compared to an ongoing three percent revenue in the second quarter of 2002 and 5.5 percent in the third quarter of the last year. Research and development expenditures have risen significantly due to an emphasis by the company on developing new standard products for the wireless infrastructure and local area network applications over the last nine months. This effort has culminated in a number of new purpose station product introductions over the last few months. We assume the same R&D spending will continue with higher rating over the next few quarters as we continue our new product development. Each comes from operations with 2.8 percent of revenue in the third quarter compared to a negative 10.3 percent of revenue in the second quarter of fiscal 2002, and 11 percent of the revenue in the third quarter of 2001. Operating margins improved over the second quarter of fiscal 2002 just before providing the new sales level ended in the result of operating performance to . We currently do not expect missing an improvement in our operating income over third quarter 2002 while have volume and it will continue to increase in normal development level . Income before taxes was 6.4 percent for the current third quarter. This compares to a loss before the tax an extraordinary item will negative four point eight percent of revenue in the second quarter of 2002, and it comes before taxes of 19.3 percent of revenue for the third quarter of fiscal 2001. Improvements from the loss in the second quarter was attributable to operating losses by the two point four million in quarter two for a loss of one point, operating loss of $1.1 million in quoted . Well, as the overall for the quarter with approximately 21 percent compared to 34.3 percent in the third quarter of 2001. The third, the current tax rate has declined as tax exempt income has grown as a percent of total income and due to the tax benefit resulting from the proposed buyer and . In connection with purchase by them in October 2001, we recorded a two point four million dollar extraordinary gain in the second quarter. Directed by the negative goodwill resulting from the transaction, during the third quarter, five of them had loss equal to tax benefits with approximately $1 million compared to a loss equal tax benefit of two point four million for the second quarter. The smaller loss defined them in the quarter three compared to quarter two was the result of the resumption in both out sourcing and clean up costs related to the fire and in the movement in manufacturing news. That income as a percent of revenue was five percent in the third quarter compared to 12.7 percent for the third quarter of 2001 and 17.7 percent for the second quarter of fiscal 2002, which concluded with the extraordinary gain amounting to 19.8 percent of revenue. On a per share basis, there wasn't a very (ph) per share for the third quarter of 2002 exploit them. This is compared to 12 times the diluted share in the third quarter of the previous year and 13 cents including the extraordinary gain of 15 cents per share in the second quarter of fiscal 2002. The balance sheet highlights include tag cash and quick work for investments for approximately $125 million in modern 2002, down $3.6 million from June 2001, namely to the all $12 million of the tab being used purchased by them and first half of fiscal 2002. We have continued to enjoy a positive cash flow of proper rations in the first nine months of net income. Cash generated by our operations was approximately 13.9 million in the first nine months of fiscal 2002. Accounts receivable were worth $18.5 million ended March 31st, 2002, including $1.9 million in , up $5 million from June 30th, 2001. Accounts receivable levels without the Ametron and acquisitions rolled approximately 20.6 percent during the quarter due to the increase in sales volume. 4 THOMSON REUTERS STREETEVENTS | www.streetevents.com | Contact Us ©2020 Thomson Reuters. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Thomson Reuters content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Reuters. 'Thomson Reuters' and the Thomson Reuters logo are registered trademarks of Thomson Reuters and its affiliated companies. APRIL 25, 2002 / 9:00PM, ANEN.O^B14 - Q3 2002 Anaren Microwave Earnings Conference Call Same sales outstanding were 67,000 at the end of March compared to 67,000 at the end of June 30th, 2001. sales outstanding between 60 and 70 days, as we go forward, depending on current sales levels, customer mix and . Inventories March 31st, 2002, were 20 million compared to 18.6 million in the June 30th, 2001. The inventory increase was due to the addition of 5M into Ametron who had approximately two million dollars in inventory in March 31st, 2002. Inventory levels without the acquisition declined approximately three percent during the first nine months. Capital equipment, employees and services in the first nine months of fiscal 2002 amounted to approximately seven million dollars, up to five million dollars represents new equipment purchased by between October and March 2002 in replace of the that were destroyed in the July fire. Remaining additions were mainly production facility, automated production equipment for our power on Long Island and new and multi-layer manufacturing equipment at in Massachusetts. Accounts payable is March 31, 2002 to 5.1 million dollars. Up 2.8 million from June 30, 2001. The acquisition of side ends and Ametron amounted in $1.4 million March 31st. And a remaining $700,000 rise resulted from the current . Lawrence Sala - Anaren Microwave Incorporated - President and CEO Thanks Joe. At the previous quarters visibility from our given a current level of market visibility through projecting net sales to the inner range of $19 million to $21 million dollars and diluted earnings per share can be in the range of three to five cents for the fourth quarter. We're now taking questions. QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS Operator Thank you, sir. The question and answer session will be conducted electronically. If you would like to ask a question please press the star key followed by the digit one on your touch-tone telephone. We will in the order you signal us and questions as time permits. Again please press star one if you would like to ask a question. And we'll hear first from Mark Mischeka (ph) , Bank of America Securities. Mark Mischeka - Bank of America Securities Hi, yes. Larry good day, good quarter. The question was, is that really just stepped out. I haven't seen them on them on your customer lists in awhile 17 percent. This is all . Can you describe a little bit about what that is and I think pretty significant to the quarter though. Lawrence Sala - Anaren Microwave Incorporated - President and CEO Yeah, they went and tumbled for us in dollar sales as well for the quarter over our previous business levels with them. Mark (ph) , we had announced last quarter that we had gained market share in our businesses in this years volume purchase agreement negotiations back in December. So we had announced that and that's played out for us and we're seeing that. are falling off into heavy at higher rates than we were in previous quarters. 5 THOMSON REUTERS STREETEVENTS | www.streetevents.com | Contact Us ©2020 Thomson Reuters. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Thomson Reuters content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Reuters. 'Thomson Reuters' and the Thomson Reuters logo are registered trademarks of Thomson Reuters and its affiliated companies. APRIL 25, 2002 / 9:00PM, ANEN.O^B14 - Q3 2002 Anaren Microwave Earnings Conference Call And we also saw this pick up of with them. It was business we probably haven't seen demand for in more than a year and it came back fairly robustly this quarter. So both those factors much larger customer purpose for it than they've been for the last year or so. Mark Mischeka - Bank of America Securities I understand. And then on your visibility you're saying it's, you know, it's still kind of limited them (ph) . Remember last quarter you said that it really increased from a couple weeks to maybe six weeks or so. Are you seeing the change? Are you still up at the six to eight weeks now or has it ticked down. Where are you at with the visibility going into June here? Lawrence Sala - Anaren Microwave Incorporated - President and CEO We can still see the people ordering out in time but it's the ordering that's still sporadic. The demand is not, you know, that's sequentially increasing every month. We go back, you know, we saw strong December, strong January, got a little linger in February and it kind of leveled out there in March, and April so far has been I'd say on the mediocre side. More consistent with February and March than it was with the strife we saw in December and January. So definitely still think people ordering out in time, making , you know, up relative to what we saw in October, November. But not consistently sequential . Mark Mischeka - Bank of America Securities Got you. And then one last question is, I know you didn't give guidance at court here but are you getting any kind of indications for the second half of the year? Are you expecting normal seasonality, seasonal spending patterns from the carriers, or is it too early to say? Lawrence Sala - Anaren Microwave Incorporated - President and CEO It's probably too early to say, Mark (ph) . I think the only guidance we can give you now is that anything out in time is relatively consistent with rates of use and order patterns. It's not dramatically up and it's not dramatically down. So , you know, when we were looking in negotiating and discussing with people back in December they saw appreciable pick up in the second half of the year. I think we found the first half to be stronger than our expectations in the second half to be a little lighter than their expectations. So we're seeing things be pretty consistent out in time with what people are consuming right now. Mark Mischeka - Bank of America Securities Got you. OK. Thanks, Joe and Larry. Lawrence Sala - Anaren Microwave Incorporated - President and CEO Sure. 6 THOMSON REUTERS STREETEVENTS | www.streetevents.com | Contact Us ©2020 Thomson Reuters. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Thomson Reuters content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Reuters. 'Thomson Reuters' and the Thomson Reuters logo are registered trademarks of Thomson Reuters and its affiliated companies. APRIL 25, 2002 / 9:00PM, ANEN.O^B14 - Q3 2002 Anaren Microwave Earnings Conference Call Operator Our next question comes from Rich Alera (ph) of Edenman (ph) . Rich Alera - Edenman Thank you, nice job on the quarter, Larry, and obviously a tough environment here. In terms of the sequential this quarter it seems like you saw a fairly small pick up in the combined contribution from 5M to Ametron and I thought we'd hope in the June quarter, possibly both of them could kick in more significantly. Do you still expect this? And if so is the sort of sequentially guidance really, 'cause we're expecting maybe other parts of the wireless business to maybe not pick up as much. Lawrence Sala - Anaren Microwave Incorporated - President and CEO Yeah, that, we fully expect to see some pick up from -- both Ametron and 5M's production rates have consistently come up in the last, at the end of the last quarter and we expect that to continue. Not an obviously dramatic contribution but certainly a higher contribution than it's been. And we're just being cautious in this potentially small for what we've seen over the last couple of months. So, you know, obviously we'll need some contribution. We're at the high end of our range. We're expecting to see some sequential growth but if things back off as they've been during the summer, we just aren't seeing out that far yet. Rich Alera - Edenman Sure. Power Wave is a pretty basic customer. Could you characterize how much of that is unit driven and how much of that is new content driven? I think I understand that you've got some nice content on some of their newer platforms. Lawrence Sala - Anaren Microwave Incorporated - President and CEO Yeah, that quarter I'd say, is still predominantly unit driven. Just pick up and demand, you know, working off of inventory and using, you know, higher rates of compliment usage. This month we're starting to see more higher dollar product use more consistently from them. So I think a higher dollar content will show more this quarter than it did last. The Power Wave, you know, historically has been a larger customer of ours and they've been or so, you know, 12 to 15 percent more for quite awhile. Rich Alera - Edenman On the Ericsson business, and I know this is a tough one but do you have any feel, they obviously had a spurt in the beginning of last year where they ordered a bunch of three G adrenaline and that kind of went away for several quarters and it sounds like you've had another spurt here. Any feel for if it's going in inventory or if are being shipped out into the field? 7 THOMSON REUTERS STREETEVENTS | www.streetevents.com | Contact Us ©2020 Thomson Reuters. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Thomson Reuters content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Reuters. 'Thomson Reuters' and the Thomson Reuters logo are registered trademarks of Thomson Reuters and its affiliated companies. APRIL 25, 2002 / 9:00PM, ANEN.O^B14 - Q3 2002 Anaren Microwave Earnings Conference Call Lawrence Sala - Anaren Microwave Incorporated - President and CEO No, we can never see that for absolute certain. All we can say is that the demand for goes out a long, long time. There's no, no appreciable holds, no demand right now that we've seen. pretty consistent week to week and month to month for more than a year. And they manufacture at multiple facilities now around the world. So all that we can see, the demand should sustain itself but we don't know where the equipment's going. We don't know if it's going out the door or not. We don't get that kind of visibility. Rich Alera - Edenman But right now their forecasts have been pretty inconsistent looking out. Lawrence Sala - Anaren Microwave Incorporated - President and CEO Yeah. Rich Alera - Edenman You mentioned the land products in your comments. Can you give us some more on kind of what you're doing in that area and when we might see some revenue impact on that? Lawrence Sala - Anaren Microwave Incorporated - President and CEO which we introduced last quarter as part of the multiple product introduction that we had. What we're starting to introduce and past more and more miniaturized products from what we've sold. So they're, you know, our traditional we're one dollar, one dollar and 50 cent ASPs sold into relatively high power applications. Some of these newer products are a quarter of the size or an eighth of the size of those high power products. And we're looking at ASP's of 50 cents down to maybe even 20 to 25 cents over the next couple of quarters. For products going into, you know, 2.4 gigahertz (ph) and five gigahertz (ph) wireless networking application. So that's near at the targeting and, and some of our product development and focus is miniaturizing some for the zinger types of products that we've been susceptible with and high power applications and targeting more feed and networking applications going forward. So we're pretty optimistic about our ability to begin miniaturization. but we're still looking at a quarter or two before we'll be introducing a product publicly with those implications. Rich Alera - Edenman Thank you. Lawrence Sala - Anaren Microwave Incorporated - President and CEO Yep. 8 THOMSON REUTERS STREETEVENTS | www.streetevents.com | Contact Us ©2020 Thomson Reuters. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Thomson Reuters content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Reuters. 'Thomson Reuters' and the Thomson Reuters logo are registered trademarks of Thomson Reuters and its affiliated companies. APRIL 25, 2002 / 9:00PM, ANEN.O^B14 - Q3 2002 Anaren Microwave Earnings Conference Call Operator Our next question comes from Dale Faha (ph) of CIBC World Markets. Dale Faha - CIBC World Markets Afternoon, guys. Joe Porcello - Anaren Microwave Incorporated - Vice President of Finance How are you doing, Dale? Dale Faha - CIBC World Markets Good. A question here on your margins. In your commentary you mentioned that with the 5M and a brother acquisition that you would have had a 39 percent gross margin. Is that correct ? Joe Porcello - Anaren Microwave Incorporated - Vice President of Finance Yeah, that's correct. Dale Faha - CIBC World Markets So when we look into the doom quarter as , can we see that a total gross margin begin to pick up? And then maybe you can give me some idea of what kind of run rate you need at those guys to get us back up to some of your historical corporate gross margins. Joe Porcello - Anaren Microwave Incorporated - Vice President of Finance Well, going forward we're seeing somewhat of a change in the next very large in the third quarter. We don't see the same thing happening in quarter four. We actually see the margins I think will be some here. Dale Faha - CIBC World Markets At what level of revenue at Ametron and 5M do you think you can get their gross margins up to the corporate average, Joe? Joe Porcello - Anaren Microwave Incorporated - Vice President of Finance We need significantly lower coming up from the fire, and the revenues now are probably at a third of what they were at their peak. So we would see a significant increase probably in 5M facility. And probably pretty close to that is the Ametron facilities from the kind of margins we expect to see. Dale Faha - CIBC World Markets Do you have any hope of achieving those kinds of revenues rates during this calendar year? 9 THOMSON REUTERS STREETEVENTS | www.streetevents.com | Contact Us ©2020 Thomson Reuters. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Thomson Reuters content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Reuters. 'Thomson Reuters' and the Thomson Reuters logo are registered trademarks of Thomson Reuters and its affiliated companies. APRIL 25, 2002 / 9:00PM, ANEN.O^B14 - Q3 2002 Anaren Microwave Earnings Conference Call Joe Porcello - Anaren Microwave Incorporated - Vice President of Finance Maybe towards the latter part of the year. It's really too early to tell at this point. Lawrence Sala - Anaren Microwave Incorporated - President and CEO You know just to give you a , in this last quarter revenues were pretty much sequentially flattened by them over the prior quarter. It's just in the prior quarter we were manufacturing an outside facility as well as their own. In this last quarter all of our production was shipped out of our facility. We're expecting an increase in revenue there this quarter from last, you know, off of the base that they had. But there's still a long way from getting back the revenue rate where they were. So we've got a ways to go. Actually next week we have a sales meeting at the 5M facility where we're going to engage our global sales force to start pursuing new business at 5M. And we think we have, you know, many opportunities to gain share. We're selling to the paying customers our to our application as we develop our other products. So it assimilates well into the sales force. But today we've just been getting back up to production with existing customers and the existing business that they had that had been put off after the fires. So we hadn't engaged our sales force yet because, you know, we would not be able to respond to it until the factory was fully running and we're back caught up on our customers . So we're pretty optimistic that sales could grow at 5M fairly rapidly once we engage our sales forces here. So I think by the end of next quarter we'll have a pretty clear picture as to how sales are going well because our sales force will have a couple months of activity in the marketing place to see how we can share. But it's a little early to say that it's the end of the year or it's, you know, a quarter or two quarters, three quarters away yet. But by the time we're in call on this quarter we should be prepared to answer that question more accurately. Dale Faha - CIBC World Markets And tax for next quarter and looking into the next fiscal year? Joe Porcello - Anaren Microwave Incorporated - Vice President of Finance Tax rate for the next portion would be similar to this quarter. we may see a one time come through here or if there's some territorial sales credits. I would say normally to 20 percent. Dale Faha - CIBC World Markets What about next year? 10 THOMSON REUTERS STREETEVENTS | www.streetevents.com | Contact Us ©2020 Thomson Reuters. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Thomson Reuters content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Reuters. 'Thomson Reuters' and the Thomson Reuters logo are registered trademarks of Thomson Reuters and its affiliated companies. APRIL 25, 2002 / 9:00PM, ANEN.O^B14 - Q3 2002 Anaren Microwave Earnings Conference Call Joe Porcello - Anaren Microwave Incorporated - Vice President of Finance Next year's gonna depend on the income level and how the business comes back. If business comes back we'll be expecting up into the low thirties somewhere and the normal rate. Dale Faha - CIBC World Markets And one final question. Could you give me some indication of your core wireless business. What percentage of the business with components and was any of your business higher level assembly or point? Joe Porcello - Anaren Microwave Incorporated - Vice President of Finance Yeah, I mean we're always generating some business and historically it's been about 50/50, Dale (ph) . This past quarter was somewhere between component business and more custom types of products. It's probably more 55 percent components and 45 percent other stuff. And I'd say that mix is probably going to stay in that range. Dale Faha - CIBC World Markets Great. Thank you much. Joe Porcello - Anaren Microwave Incorporated - Vice President of Finance Thank you. Operator Once again, please press star one at this time if you would like to ask a question. We'll move now to Tom Laview (ph) with Robertson Stephens. Tom Laview - Robertson Stevens Thank you, guys. Good quarter there. You talked a little bit about the China announcement and what a little bit more meat on the bone in terms of when you believe production and general business proceeded . Unidentified Sure. We actually initiated that late last calendar year, about the fourth calendar quarter of last year, signed our business license and leased our facility in February, March time frame. And we have actually hired our agent's sale manager, our agent's operations manager and we're relocating from our Syracuse facility over to our China operations. So are hear training now at the Syracuse facility on production activities and sales activities that we'll be initiating over the next couple months. So they should be out of sight within the next couple months. The facility is being outfitted and equipped now. 11 THOMSON REUTERS STREETEVENTS | www.streetevents.com | Contact Us ©2020 Thomson Reuters. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Thomson Reuters content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Reuters. 'Thomson Reuters' and the Thomson Reuters logo are registered trademarks of Thomson Reuters and its affiliated companies. APRIL 25, 2002 / 9:00PM, ANEN.O^B14 - Q3 2002 Anaren Microwave Earnings Conference Call And we're probably looking at something between $250,000 and $500,000 investment to get up and running. Mainly replicating some of the equipment processes we have here at . Nothing too new or too risk (ph) from what we do now. And so they should be on site during the middle of this current quarter to the end of this current quarter. So sometime between late May and June they'll be on site and up and going and we expect to have production initiated some time in the first quarter of fiscal 2003. So before the end of September we'd like to be up and running. we have a couple product lines we'd like to get going with over there. Some new product lines that we'd like to get started with an relocating some product lines and we're seeing some growth. We'd like to address that growth out of that facility because we believe we can be more competitive. Tom Laview - Robertson Stevens One question on the space and defense business. The operating is there. The last couple quarters have been north of 20 percent. Should we assume that that's continuing and working until the end of this year? Unidentified Those margins that are really dependent upon the at the kind of business level we would expect that we could probably maintain time margins, yes. Tom Laview - Robertson Stevens OK. And then by that estimation that would be the wireless business has made a dramatic gain in the operating margin. Could we expect even with sort of flattish revenue growth, getting back to almost a break even in operating margins? Sort of getting back to zero there. Unidentified Yeah. We're really . Yes. Tom Laview - Robertson Stevens OK. And , can you give me the operating income that you stated in the call excluding the Ametron and 5M? Unidentified It's . Tom Laview - Robertson Stevens Well I've got one question here while you're looking for that. With the break out ... 12 THOMSON REUTERS STREETEVENTS | www.streetevents.com | Contact Us ©2020 Thomson Reuters. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Thomson Reuters content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Reuters. 'Thomson Reuters' and the Thomson Reuters logo are registered trademarks of Thomson Reuters and its affiliated companies. APRIL 25, 2002 / 9:00PM, ANEN.O^B14 - Q3 2002 Anaren Microwave Earnings Conference Call Unidentified Operating, I'm sorry, operating income without 5M and Ametron was $1.8 million. Tom Laview - Robertson Stevens In the break period of 2000 two products you obviously spent a lot of time this quarter introducing products. Can you talk a little bit about the vector modulator, the applications there? And then also some application where imbedding active devices. Unidentified Yeah, we've been doing this for quite some time, actually, building products that corporate . This is the first time though in a couple of years that we really aggressively started doing this again in partnership with some . The vector modulator was used at the front end of a power amplifier and actually can do the single manipulation required for linearization. So when somebody instructs it to or amplitude of the signal or improving the amplifier performance . As far as the technology, we can imbed just about any kind of active or passive component into our multi-layer strip line technology. And as I said we promoted it's sole product more than five or six years ago for wireless applications at that point. components. So the technology is not brand new but we're doing a lot of different and new things with it these days. You know, an example is our . Going forward we're looking to do a lot of different things from different types of amplifiers with applications as well as module applications with a technology from both transmit high power applications low power applications. So it's really a platform for us to do many different functions with the modulators. Just the first of those products. Tom Laview - Robertson Stevens OK, that's all. Thank you very much. Unidentified Thanks. Operator from Mark Mischeka (ph) at Bank of America Securities. Mark Mischeka - Bank of America Securities All right. a little housekeeping. Joe, did you have the customer mix for last, I guess not, yeah for last quarter? Joe Porcello - Anaren Microwave Incorporated - Vice President of Finance Customer mix? 13 THOMSON REUTERS STREETEVENTS | www.streetevents.com | Contact Us ©2020 Thomson Reuters. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Thomson Reuters content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Reuters. 'Thomson Reuters' and the Thomson Reuters logo are registered trademarks of Thomson Reuters and its affiliated companies. APRIL 25, 2002 / 9:00PM, ANEN.O^B14 - Q3 2002 Anaren Microwave Earnings Conference Call Mark Mischeka - Bank of America Securities Yeah. Joe Porcello - Anaren Microwave Incorporated - Vice President of Finance Yes I did get and I have the Motorola Power Wave. But we were with Ericsson last quarter. Lawrence Sala - Anaren Microwave Incorporated - President and CEO The quarter before . Mark Mischeka - Bank of America Securities December, yeah. Lawrence Sala - Anaren Microwave Incorporated - President and CEO Yeah. Mark Mischeka - Bank of America Securities OK. Lawrence Sala - Anaren Microwave Incorporated - President and CEO Last quarter Ericsson was about 20 percent of our wireless net sales. Unidentified That's good because we had at 16. at 12 and Power Wave at 15. Mark Mischeka - Bank of America Securities similar patters in March or do you expect Ericsson to become next quarter? Joe Porcello - Anaren Microwave Incorporated - Vice President of Finance No I think we're right now seeing things stand relatively where they are. Mark Mischeka - Bank of America Securities OK. Got you. And then a question on the 5M acquisition. It seemed like, you know, your gross margin took a hit because of that. Can you explain, is there some amortization or accounting that's going on there that goes away at some point? How should we look at that? 14 THOMSON REUTERS STREETEVENTS | www.streetevents.com | Contact Us ©2020 Thomson Reuters. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Thomson Reuters content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Reuters. 'Thomson Reuters' and the Thomson Reuters logo are registered trademarks of Thomson Reuters and its affiliated companies. APRIL 25, 2002 / 9:00PM, ANEN.O^B14 - Q3 2002 Anaren Microwave Earnings Conference Call Lawrence Sala - Anaren Microwave Incorporated - President and CEO Well, what basically happened was that all this business interruption insurance that we've received for the fire was what has basically covered the expenses of the company for probably after we bought them were recognized in the purchase accounting. we have plenty of cash and if you look at their balance now they're still sitting on about $3.6 million dollars in cash and we're nine months out from the fire. So they're covering their expenses with the resources they received from the insurance company. But it was all recognized in terms of the revenue gaining back when we purchased the company. So now we're basically having expenses with significant revenues to off set the expenses. That's where you're getting your operating loss. And going forward until revenues rise to the prior levels, we're still going to suffer some kind of operating loss. We had 2.4 million dollar operating loss which has dropped to about one million dollars in quarter three and we expected the smaller improvements in quarter four because most of the are between two and three to put the factory back together. When you look at, if you lay the two against each other, Mark (ph) , when we recognize the gain of somewhere in $4 million to pay at the end of last quarter, we had estimated that that gain would cover their operating losses through probably September with a fairly conservative assumption of how revenue is gonna come back again. This quarter was actually a little bit better than we expected in terms of performance. So we have, you know, things are coming back a little bit better than we expected them to so far. The real telltale will be how in selling our technology and getting the revenue level up from here. So far it's operating better than we expected but if we had to recognize it as a one time gain and now we're taking in the operating losses . Mark Mischeka - Bank of America Securities Got you. OK. And then just on what gets revenue going back there again. Is this picking up some of the them actually giving design that Nokia . Joe Porcello - Anaren Microwave Incorporated - Vice President of Finance That's exactly it. That's where we're focusing first is on our big amplifier customers. They actually had relationship with Nokia prior to our involvement. We believe they have some fairly unique technology in building very cost effective high power amplifier microwave circuit boards. So we think their technology applies to all of our customers and that they have some pretty unique capabilities to do things competitors and that's getting anybody introduced to the market place. So I saw shorter selling cycles than a lot of the other products that we offer because they can come in, take the drawing and get into production within a matter of a month. They don't have to wait for designing cycles to get in and get going. So there is better opportunity to get the revenue rate up quickly than say products that we introduce that have to go through a new design cycle. Mark Mischeka - Bank of America Securities OK, great. Thanks for the explanation there. 15 THOMSON REUTERS STREETEVENTS | www.streetevents.com | Contact Us ©2020 Thomson Reuters. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Thomson Reuters content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Reuters. 'Thomson Reuters' and the Thomson Reuters logo are registered trademarks of Thomson Reuters and its affiliated companies. APRIL 25, 2002 / 9:00PM, ANEN.O^B14 - Q3 2002 Anaren Microwave Earnings Conference Call Joe Porcello - Anaren Microwave Incorporated - Vice President of Finance Sure. Operator Mike Lawcid (ph) of RBC Capital with our next question. Cliff Maldonado - RBC Capital Yes, hi, this is Cliff Maldonado (ph) for Mike Lawcid (ph) . I was wondering if you could review the competitive landscape for the . Unidentified We really don't see a big difference in landscape around the world. We pretty much deal with the same global competitors everywhere. We've been competitively I think like anything we're seeing, you know, see competition. A lot of people try to get into different product areas and try to do anything they can do to get their revenue rate up. But not a lot changing quarter to quarter in the competitive landscape. We're still seeing this . Cliff Maldonado - RBC Capital How about pricing pressure? Unidentified Well, you know, continues to be strong. Customers are all looking to enhance their margins. I'd say that changes in the marketplace has probably been more frequent. Price and negotiations with our customers, some customers wanting to negotiate every six months or even every quarter versus annually. But, you know, certainly more pressure than we saw even a year ago. Cliff Maldonado - RBC Capital What do you expect for for the next quarter? You know you mentioned you had some pressure on the margin. Do you expect to be ? Unidentified Somewhere around 20.12 percent of the sales. Somewhere in that . Cliff Maldonado - RBC Capital OK, thanks. 16 THOMSON REUTERS STREETEVENTS | www.streetevents.com | Contact Us ©2020 Thomson Reuters. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Thomson Reuters content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Reuters. 'Thomson Reuters' and the Thomson Reuters logo are registered trademarks of Thomson Reuters and its affiliated companies. APRIL 25, 2002 / 9:00PM, ANEN.O^B14 - Q3 2002 Anaren Microwave Earnings Conference Call Operator And a final reminder, please press star one if you would like to ask a question at this time. We'll hear now from Judson Copland (ph) of Morgan Family. Unidentified Hi. for Judson (ph) . How are you guys doing? Unidentified Good. Unidentified A couple quick questions. We didn't talk about Nokia too much on your core wireless business. But you did have a lot with those folks. Have you got any business attached to that? Unidentified Nothing substantially different. We do have a volume purchase agreement, we gained some share but it's off of obviously a very small paced, small customer of ours in the past. So they've pretty much called off the products to their forecast today. And not yet a large customer of ours. We would expect them next couple of quarters. Unidentified From the core business or for 5M or both? Unidentified From a core business. 5M is qualified hopefully by Nokia in this current quarter. They're actually visiting our 5M facility over the next couple of weeks I believe and hopefully we'll successfully complete the qualification with them. But it won't be after that that we start to see any kind of pick up at 5M. Unidentified OK. Could you quickly talk about your revenues from new products? Unidentified Our new products, well I guess that's how you define new products. As far as any of the new things that we've introduced in the last quarter or these breaking products, we don't expect to see revenue from them for at least another probably two quarters. Maybe some in our late third or fourth quarter of this calendar year. But the status . For us it's typically a nine month cycle to get new products in. 17 THOMSON REUTERS STREETEVENTS | www.streetevents.com | Contact Us ©2020 Thomson Reuters. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Thomson Reuters content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Reuters. 'Thomson Reuters' and the Thomson Reuters logo are registered trademarks of Thomson Reuters and its affiliated companies. APRIL 25, 2002 / 9:00PM, ANEN.O^B14 - Q3 2002 Anaren Microwave Earnings Conference Call We're seeing a little bit of revenue earlier than we've ever seen it before. But whether it'll start to be a impact within the next quarter or two is yet to be seen. So maybe six months from the introduction we might see some production but nine months is more of the typical. The only other new thing this quarter was with the 3G adrenaline our first production of that product and probably at least a year. Unidentified What ? Unidentified We're seeing, you know, we've actually shipped reels of thousands of products out already even though we've just introduced that product a month and a half ago. So to our surprise, yes, some of the lower line products and some of the zinger circulator products, we're actually seeing a little bit of . But still we expect it to be another quarter or two before we see any steady significant production there. But that's pretty . In the past we -- typically it's been a longer time before we see products procured in those kind of volumes. Unidentified Why do you think that is for those two particular products? delay line. Unidentified I think it's because they're brand new concept products that offer savings, you know, appreciable savings over alternatives. So the delay line is very unique. There was never to our knowledge a product like that in the marketplace and it's substantially lower cost than alternatives that were out there. And similar with the zinger circulator, it's something brand new and fairly weak in the market. And so I think people are looking at it as a figure . Unidentified OK, and last question. Andrew Corporation announced the purchase of a company called Quasar (ph) yesterday. products. Can you give a sense for what you think that purchase or that category of product is placed within the . Unidentified To my knowledge is a lot more competitive with some of our older traditional products, case products than with anything that we really sell into the wireless marketplace today. I'm not super familiar with that product line. We never that I ever remember in our history running to them as a competitor or even considered an alternative to the things that we focus on. . 18 THOMSON REUTERS STREETEVENTS | www.streetevents.com | Contact Us ©2020 Thomson Reuters. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Thomson Reuters content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Reuters. 'Thomson Reuters' and the Thomson Reuters logo are registered trademarks of Thomson Reuters and its affiliated companies. APRIL 25, 2002 / 9:00PM, ANEN.O^B14 - Q3 2002 Anaren Microwave Earnings Conference Call Unidentified And how or your new with our amplifiers or other components within the base station. What's kind of happening from the perspective and ? Unidentified Well we're, you know, we're definitely seeing the desire from to buy higher levels of assemblies. But for us it's really a potentially into a different customer. It's not really worth creating more opportunity for us or less so where as, you know, today we might sell to an amplifier manufacturer and we might sell to a manufacturer and we might sell to another sub-assembly manufacturer. As we go forward it's looking like that might be one big customer instead of three separate customers. But at the end of the day where we play in this food chain, we're still typically selling our components be it at L&A or combiner or at power amplifier. Unidentified You mentioned that they only wanted to buy higher level assemblies and one of your comments back at the was that you started to get some more of the signaling of base band signaling protocols from the . Is this the way that they're indicating that they want higher level assemblies by communicating some more of those protocols? Unidentified Not quite sure I fully understand your question. We're just saying that some of our customers sub systems rather than just so we're finding that, you know, our customers who might have just been doing a before or combiner or power amplifier before are now dabbling in all of those technologies and product areas and going after assemblies as opposed to just one piece. Unidentified Is there some kind of parallel behavior here appearing at the OEM's that you from your volume purchase agreement that is with that behavior from your customers? Unidentified No, I mean, from what we've seen in our limited view of the world, you know, our customers, you know, before they out sourced our and they out sourced filters and they out sourced L&A's. They still are, just might be trying to go to the one customer, one supplier instead of three different ones. And our customers traditionally build their own PA's or build their own filters, build their own L&A. They're still doing that. We haven't what they're doing. It's just how they're doing it and trying to find maybe one source instead of three different sources. Unidentified OK. That makes sense. Thank you very much. 19 THOMSON REUTERS STREETEVENTS | www.streetevents.com | Contact Us ©2020 Thomson Reuters. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Thomson Reuters content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Reuters. 'Thomson Reuters' and the Thomson Reuters logo are registered trademarks of Thomson Reuters and its affiliated companies. APRIL 25, 2002 / 9:00PM, ANEN.O^B14 - Q3 2002 Anaren Microwave Earnings Conference Call Operator At this time there are no further questions. I'll turn the conference back to our presenters for any closing or additional remarks. Unidentified Well, thank you for you time and we look forward to speaking with you against next quarter. Operator That concludes today's conference. Thank you, everyone, for your participation. END DISCLAIMER Thomson Reuters reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes. In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized. THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON REUTERS OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS. ©2020, Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved. 612885-2020-07-08T12:18:00 20 THOMSON REUTERS STREETEVENTS | www.streetevents.com | Contact Us ©2020 Thomson Reuters. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Thomson Reuters content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Reuters. 'Thomson Reuters' and the Thomson Reuters logo are registered trademarks of Thomson Reuters and its affiliated companies. APRIL 25, 2002 / 9:00PM, ANEN.O^B14 - Q3 2002 Anaren Microwave Earnings Conference Call
THOMSON REUTERS STREETEVENTS EDITED TRANSCRIPT ODP.OQ - Q1 2002 Office Depot Earnings Conference Call EVENT DATE/TIME: APRIL 17, 2002 / 12:00PM GMT OVERVIEW: 1Q02 operating income up 69% to $163.9m. EPS up 68% to $0.32. BSG operating profit 9.9% -- best in company's history. Expect to grow FY02 earnings in 30% range, depending on growth in North America. Fifth consecutive quarter of improving North America retail. Q&A focus: earnings growth potential, business segments comps, global economy softening and its impacts. THOMSON REUTERS STREETEVENTS | www.streetevents.com | Contact Us ©2020 Thomson Reuters. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Thomson Reuters content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Reuters. 'Thomson Reuters' and the Thomson Reuters logo are registered trademarks of Thomson Reuters and its affiliated companies. CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS Eileen Dunn Office Depot, Inc. - Vice President of Investor Relations and Public Relations Bruce Nelson Office Depot, Inc. - Chairman and CEO Charles Brown Office Depot, Inc. - Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer CONFERENCE CALL PARTICIPANTS Bill Julian (ph) Salomon Smith Barney Dan Wewur (ph) Deutsche Bank Alex Brown Erin Rubinson (ph) UBS Warburg Matthew Fessler (ph) Goldman Sachs Colin McLanahan (ph) Sanford Bernstein Brian Nagle (ph) Credit Suisse First Boston Danielle Fox (ph) J.P. Morgan Jack Belos (ph) Midwood Research PRESENTATION Operator Good morning. We would like to welcome you to Office Depot's first quarter 2002 earnings conference call. All lines have been a listen-only mode until after today's presentation, at which point instructions will be given in order to ask a question. At the request of Office Depot, today's conference is being recorded. I would like to introduce Miss Eileen Dunn, Vice President of Investor Relations and Public Relations, who will make a few opening comments. Miss Dunn, you may begin. Eileen Dunn - Office Depot, Inc. - Vice President of Investor Relations and Public Relations Good morning everyone, and thanks for joining us for today's first quarter2002 earnings call. Before we begin today's presentation, I'd like to remind you that except for historical data, comments on this call should be considered forward-looking within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act. Forward-looking statements, including projections as to revenues or earnings, and other statements related to expected future performance by Office Depot may involve risks and uncertainties which may cause actual results to differ materially from those discussed on this conference call. Please refer to our filings with the SEC for further information. Now I'd like to turn today's call over to Office Depot's Chairman, and CEO, Bruce Nelson. Bruce Nelson - Office Depot, Inc. - Chairman and CEO Thanks Eileen, and good morning to all of you who have joined us. For our international colleagues who are listening, good afternoon to you as well. Some highlights as you've seen in our release this morning, our first quarter operating income rose 69 percent, to 163.9 million. EPS increased 68 percent to 32 cents, compared to 19 cents in the first quarter of 2001. Cash reached $845 million, on track now to generate $350 million of free cash flow this year. Our inventory turns overall improved to seven for the trailing 12 months. 2 THOMSON REUTERS STREETEVENTS | www.streetevents.com | Contact Us ©2020 Thomson Reuters. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Thomson Reuters content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Reuters. 'Thomson Reuters' and the Thomson Reuters logo are registered trademarks of Thomson Reuters and its affiliated companies. APRIL 17, 2002 / 12:00PM, ODP.OQ - Q1 2002 Office Depot Earnings Conference Call Our DSO and our contract business hit record lows in the first quarter. Worldwide e-commerce sales reached 488 million, on track to achieve $2 billion in 2002. We had strong operating results across all of our business segments. We added two new executives to our key management leadership team, a new CIO Patty Morrison, and a new CMO, Jocelyn Carter-Miller. We remain comfortable with our 2002 EPS growth target of 30 plus percent. On a consolidated sales basis, total first quarter revenue increased one percent, comparable worldwide sales declined one percent in the quarter. Our company-wide customer complaints dropped by 35 percent in the first quarter, our customer service indexes across all of our business segments increased. We did experience some softness in our European catalog operations, which I'll comment on when I get to international, and we continue to face strong U.S. dollar currency translation, which has the impact of impacting negatively our reported international sales and operating profits. On the comparable sales basis, retail comp sales were negative 1.7 percent for the first quarter, representing the fifth consecutive quarter of improving North America retail comp sales trends. The decline was still driven by a decline in hardware sales, with desktop and laptop computers comps dropping 18 percent, and overall technology sales were down 13 percent. Comp sales decreased 2.26 percent in our business services group during the first quarter of 2001, an improvement of negative 4 percent, in a similar period in the fourth quarter last year. Comp sales were somewhat soft across all customer size segments in BSG, excluding our e-commerce sales. These soft sales largely reflect the economic slowdown in medium and large contract accounts in the West in particular, and portions of the Central region. We continue to experience solid growth in the North and Southeast regions of the U.S. in our BSG business. International comparative sales were, grew four percent in local currencies in the first quarter. The strongest performance were in the Netherlands, Germany, Austria and Italy, with particular softness in the U.K., France and Japan. As we mentioned in our release this morning, we now anticipate some slowing of our historical high comp growth rates in our European catalog operations for the next few quarters, as a result of softer European economies, but somewhat offset by strong sales growth in France retail, and in the four countries where we have launched our new Office Depot Business Services Group. Our consolidated operating profit basis, as I said earlier, operating profit rose 69 percent to 164 million, from 97 million in 2001. Our North America retail operating profit achieved 7.6 percent, versus 4.3 percent in quarter one last year, and 6.2 percent -- 6.02 percent in quarter four. Our BSG group had its best ever quarter with Office Depot, with operating profit achieved at 9.9 percent of sales, in spite of negative comps. International division operating profit was almost 14 percent, versus 14.83 percent a year ago, despite softer catalog sales performance. Gross margin improvement more than offset our comparable sales softness. The biggest impact was in our North American retail business, where last year in the first quarter we had SKU rationalization. I'll comment more on that in the retail section. Lower levels of technology sales in North America retail also translate to a higher margin mix. We have for some time now, had more rational promotional activity, and we continue our intense focus on large contract account profitability. The key drivers of the operating profit expansion the first quarter, in addition to the gross margin increases, were that our BSG selling and operating costs improved by 224 basis points in the first quarter. As I said earlier, our customer service metrics substantially improved across all of our business segments. We did experience somewhat higher G&A costs, associated with international expansion to new countries, higher security and insurance costs as a result of the aftermath of September 11th, the inclusion of our new business forsure.com, their G&A costs in this quarter were not in the same quarter year ago, and some higher professional fees related to supply chain and merchandising initiatives that we're undertaking to even get better at supply chain, and higher bonus accruals to reflect our continued improvement in our performance metrics across all of our businesses. On a diluted gap reporting basis, EPS is 32 cents versus a first quarter year ago of 19 cents. Now let's talk about each of the business segments. North America retail sales -- as I said earlier, our fifth consecutive quarter of comparable sales improvement. Supplies continued to show improvement with positive comps overall on our supply business. Our first quarter product mix had furniture down four percent in the first quarter, versus 11 percent in the fourth quarter, some sign of improvement in that business. 3 THOMSON REUTERS STREETEVENTS | www.streetevents.com | Contact Us ©2020 Thomson Reuters. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Thomson Reuters content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Reuters. 'Thomson Reuters' and the Thomson Reuters logo are registered trademarks of Thomson Reuters and its affiliated companies. APRIL 17, 2002 / 12:00PM, ODP.OQ - Q1 2002 Office Depot Earnings Conference Call Overall technology hardware sales was down 13 percent in the quarter versus 25 percent in quarter four. It would appear to us that we may have bottomed out our decline in technology. Our software sales continue to be flattish. Average ticket in our North American retail business grew slightly in the quarter, an encouraging sign, and our average transactions were basically flattish. Our customer service index was up in our retail stores across our chain, as the benefits of our focus on making this a compelling place to shop continue to make shopping at Office Depot a better experience, evidenced by store complaints down again this quarter. This is the fifth or sixth consecutive quarter of improvement as we intentionally focus on making shopping at Office Depot a better place, and our average outs per store in spite of our inventory turn increases, and our supply chain efficiencies, actually went down in the first quarter this year, versus the first quarter of last year. Our North American operating profit in retail stores was up 289 basis points over the first quarter last year. Gross margins improved 312 basis points. Almost two-thirds of this gross margin improvement is directly attributable to the 2001 SKU rationalization we did in the first quarter of last year. The other third is changes in our promotional activity, becoming smarter about pricing and demand, and the continuing reflection of our improving margins in this business over the past four quarters. The balance of improvement is related to the continued mix shift, with softer technology sales, which have dropped from about 25 percent of our retail sales in 2000 to about 15 percent so far in 2002. As I said, I think that category has reached its bottom, and we now think there are opportunities, particularly in the second half of this year, to grow our share in technology on a profitable basis and recognize technology carries with it a very important market basket to Office Depot. Our store operating costs rose slightly in the quarter by 23 basis points. We continue tight control over our expenses, managing our payroll in a very difficult sales environment despite significant wage and healthcare benefit increases. We have flexed our payroll hours in response to softer sales, but we believe we are investing more payroll hours in our store model than our competitors, we believe that's why we're getting higher customer service levels, and we believe that leads to a better shopping experience. We have completed the roll out of our new store label model in almost 100 of our stores, we'll complete that roll out in the next quarter or two. We do expect to get savings as we've talked about. We're reinvesting part of those savings back in to better customer service to go along with the re-launch of our brand, which basically says what you need, and what you need to know, and we're investing our people so they get what they need to know to help customers. At the end of the first quarter we had 857 North America retail stores. We relocated two stores during the quarter, and closed two previously announced under-performing retail stores. Turning to our business service group sales, total sales in this sector increased one percent. As I said earlier, our contract division had strong growth in the Northeastern Southeast regions, but continued softness in the Western part of the United States and some parts of the Central region, in particular, Northern California continues to be heavily impacted by the decline in the technology industries of Northern California. We had, and continue to have, a very large presence in that sector, and that's been particularly soft for the last two or three quarters. Our revenue per order is down a bit from last year's levels, but rose slightly over the course of the first three months of this year. Again, another small sign of encouragement in terms of our delivery business, as our average order value went up slightly during the first quarter. Domestic e-commerce sales rose 35 percent. Our customer service indexes out of our North American delivery centers were their best ever, and rose to the highest levels in the history of Office Depot. Our warehouse customer complaints are down. Our call center complaints are down. Simply put, we're servicing customers better than we have ever in the past, and we're doing it with lower costs and that's a result of higher quality. Our operating profit in this segment was 9.9 percent for the first quarter, compared to 5.8 percent of last year. It is simply the best operating performance in our history in this segment. It improved by 402 basis points year over year. We had 178 basis point gross margin improvement in this business, as a result of our continued focus on contract pricing and account profitability. We do expect to see a slight reduction in gross margin percentage as we move through the balance of this year, as our growing national account sales begin to filter in to our sales mix. 4 THOMSON REUTERS STREETEVENTS | www.streetevents.com | Contact Us ©2020 Thomson Reuters. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Thomson Reuters content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Reuters. 'Thomson Reuters' and the Thomson Reuters logo are registered trademarks of Thomson Reuters and its affiliated companies. APRIL 17, 2002 / 12:00PM, ODP.OQ - Q1 2002 Office Depot Earnings Conference Call Our selling and operating costs were down 224 basis points versus last year. That's the result of the call center consolidation we completed last year, in which we said it would give us higher quality, better customer service and lower costs, and it has. And we also invested heavily last year in warehouse technology to improve quality and efficiency, and those improvements continue to flow through our operating expenses in spite of negative sales. March was the 15th consecutive month of record expense percentage in our North American warehouses. Our expenses per order continue to move down and we still believe that we can reduce our total warehouse operating costs year over year, by 100 basis points. The results could obviously be offset by a lack of sales leverage, but we're pretty proud of our performance in this segment, given the fact that we've been up against negative sales the last two quarters. As I said, our DSO in this segment was its best ever. It improved by six days. We tied this measurement to sales compensation, our sales force has responded positively. It's one of the reasons why our cash, our balance sheet, and our operating cash flow continue to remain strong. Internationally, total international sales in U.S. dollars were flat, and comp sales were down one percent. In local currencies, international sales rose five percent total, and comps four -- five percent a total increase, and comps rose four. Currency is still plaguing us. The strong U.S. dollar negatively impacted sales in this quarter by almost $20 million, and over $2 million of operating profit. We did see, in the quarters, some softness across most all of our European Viking catalog operations, and as I said earlier, with the largest impacts in the U.K. and France. Japan continues to under-perform as a result of their economy which remains in our viewpoint, in disarray. While we are seeing softness in our international catalog businesses, our BSD contract sales are still meeting or exceeding our initial plans in each of the four new countries in which we have an Office Depot BSD presence. Our retail business in France continues to encourage us. Comps in our French retail business in local currencies were up seven percent. We will open eight new stores this year, down slightly from our earlier target only because we're making certain we find great retail locations. We did have negative retail comps in Japan, down nine percent in the quarter in local currency. We did open two new Japanese stores in the first quarter, bringing us now to a total of 11 stores in Japan. In spite of that softness, our first quarter operating profit internationally was 14 percent, albeit down 80 basis points from last year. Gross margins in this business are trending strong, up 51 basis points despite the addition of a growing retail business in France, our introduction of our BSD contract business in four countries, and our new prospecting efforts in our two newest countries, Switzerland and earlier this quarter, in Spain. We believe we'll continue to buy better throughout Europe as we leverage our supply chain, and we're making better use of our global purchasing, our global brand, and our emphasis on private label throughout international and domestic businesses. Our store and warehouse operating costs increased in this business 131 basis points in the first quarter, reflecting the addition of the start-up costs in Switzerland, which we opened in early January, costs associated with the launch of Spain, which we opened during the first week of April, and three new countries which we have an Office Depot BSD presence that weren't in our numbers in the first quarter year ago. While softness in Japan did result in negative retail comps, we did improve our operating performance in Japan, and our losses this quarter were about $800,000 less than in the same quarter a year earlier, as we get our arms around our operating model in Japan. We still generate losses, we're still optimistic about Japan in the long term, we opened two stores and we're making progress, albeit we're still losing money in Japan. As I said earlier, we began operations in Switzerland early January, with encouraging results. We launched Spain with a direct-mail Viking business the first week of April, and we are very encouraged by our first week of results. First week's not a quarter, not a year, but we've got some encouraging signs about Spain. And we continue to invest, and will continue to invest, in this high performing, high return on asset, high return on sales business, as it still remains a key growth vehicle for our company in the future. In summary, we simply had strong performance across all of our business segments. We believe this proves the sustainability of all the actions we've taken to improve our business model that began over 18 months ago. All of this consistently improving performance has been achieved 5 THOMSON REUTERS STREETEVENTS | www.streetevents.com | Contact Us ©2020 Thomson Reuters. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Thomson Reuters content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Reuters. 'Thomson Reuters' and the Thomson Reuters logo are registered trademarks of Thomson Reuters and its affiliated companies. APRIL 17, 2002 / 12:00PM, ODP.OQ - Q1 2002 Office Depot Earnings Conference Call during a very challenging and difficult economic environment. Our balance sheet has never been better, our operating cash flows are strong, and we now have more access to more capital to grow our business than we've had in the past. During the quarter we successfully completed a $600 million credit facility over three years, which gives us the ability to have cash and credit to grow and invest in our business. We've enhanced our executive management team through the addition of two new outstanding executives, a CIO and a CMO, and we also added two new impressive board members to our already great board of directors. The consistency of our earnings performance has proven that when revenue overall begins to grow, we are able and capable, and have the physical discipline and controls to accelerate our earnings growth capacity. As I said at the beginning of the call, we do remain confident in our ability to grow earnings in 2002, in the 30 percent range. As we look forward to 2003, we must see acceleration in our sales growth to sustain future earning growth and trends, and this organization is highly focused on finding new ways to grow. We have lots of new ideas, we have a number of new tests, none of them are at a stage where we're ready to talk about them, but we are focused on growing our business, growing market share in North America, continuing our market share growth outside the United States. We are seeing some early signs of small improvements in the domestic economy, somewhat offset by the softness in our European catalog operations. As I said earlier, in the quarter we saw a small up tick in our average order size in our North America retail stores. We saw our technology sales, while declining, to be the lowest level of decline in the last five quarters. We've seen a small improvement in average order size in our North America contract business, and we continue to make improvements in our cost structure in spite of lower sales volumes. In summary, we think we had a great quarter. We still are focused on improvement, we have an organization dedicated to make Office Depot the most compelling place to work, shop and invest, in our sector, and as I said, now almost two years ago, I wouldn't bet against this company in the long term, and I still wouldn't do it. On that basis, I'd like to turn the call over to all of you for any questions you might have about the quarter and the comments I've just made. QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS Operator And at this time we'll be in the question and answer portion of today's call. If you would like to ask a question, press star, one on your touch-tone phone pad. If you are using speaker equipment, you may need to lift your handset prior to pressing star one. To withdraw your question, press star two. Once again that is star one to ask a question, and star two to withdraw your question. And our first question comes from Bill Julian (ph) of Salomon Smith Barney. Bill Julian - Salomon Smith Barney Thanks. Good morning Bruce. Let me start just by asking for a point of clarification. When you talk about 30 percent earnings growth for 2002 with no improvement in the domestic economy, are you essentially saying you can do that without any sales growth in your North American businesses? Bruce Nelson - Office Depot, Inc. - Chairman and CEO No. What I'm saying is that I don't -- I think the 30 percent growth comes on with the outlook we have for the second half of the year. And that basically says we believe our North America retail comps, when we finish 2002, will be basically neutral. We had negative 1.7 in the first quarter. We believe that we're anniversarying (ph) some softer retail comps. We believe that technology has somewhat bottomed. We think we'll see an uplift in that in the second quarter. So we're saying if the economy stays the way it is, it doesn't go up much, and it doesn't go down, we're 6 THOMSON REUTERS STREETEVENTS | www.streetevents.com | Contact Us ©2020 Thomson Reuters. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Thomson Reuters content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Reuters. 'Thomson Reuters' and the Thomson Reuters logo are registered trademarks of Thomson Reuters and its affiliated companies. APRIL 17, 2002 / 12:00PM, ODP.OQ - Q1 2002 Office Depot Earnings Conference Call confident of our ability, given the sales levels we've anticipated in each of our business segments, that we will deliver this year the 30 percent plus growth in our, in our EPS. Should we get an uplift in the economy, we think it's more than that, I'm just not today ready to sit back and say we're ready to tell you that the economies turned itself around. As in the past, I plan on a mid-quarter update towards the end of May, when I'll give all of you more color and insight into our performance in the second quarter. And I'll give you a better feel again, but basically what we're saying Bill (ph) is the economy stays the same, this is the earning capacity of the company, if sales were to begin to accelerate, our earning capacity can accelerate. Bill Julian - Salomon Smith Barney OK, that's fair. You're obviously pushing up against old high-water margins, and pushing beyond them. Can you comment a little bit on how far you think those might go over the next couple of years? Bruce Nelson - Office Depot, Inc. - Chairman and CEO Well I think that on the gross margin side, I think we've got one quarter left, this one, in which the delta between the quarter a year ago and this quarter will be fairly significant. Again, we're anniversarying the SKU rationalization we did in our retail stores, we very basically re-merchandised our entire chain in the second quarter of last year. I said that would lead to higher margins, better mix, a better market basket and it has. We anniversaryed that starting in the third quarter. We also have been more disciplined about our pricing, we've used our data warehouse to be smarter about our pricing, we've focused on our contract account profitability. I think our margin levels beyond the second quarter are sustainable outside of mix changes, either technology mix or some contract mix. I don't look for gross margin expansion after the second quarter compared to previous quarters. The -- any change will be a mix change. And be small changes. Bill Julian - Salomon Smith Barney OK, thank you. Operator And our next question comes from Dan Wewur (ph) of Deutsche Bank Alex Brown. Dan Wewur - Deutsche Bank Alex Brown Good morning. Question on the business service group, at the end of 2001 that division was generating a margin of about 7.9 percent which was always thought to be the high-water mark potential in that business. Clearly with the results you achieved in the first quarter we have to rethink the ultimate profitability in BSG. Now Bruce when you think about the art of the possible, you know, how high is high now in BSG? Bruce Nelson - Office Depot, Inc. - Chairman and CEO I think that Dan (ph) , that's a good question Dan (ph) . I think that clearly we had a great quarter performance. We're continuing to anniversary improvements that we started to make -- those improvements have accelerated so some of the improvement gets more difficult, second and third quarter, because we've made drastic changes in this company for the positive. I think this business is still, and I've said all along, I think it's an eight to a nine percent business. 7 THOMSON REUTERS STREETEVENTS | www.streetevents.com | Contact Us ©2020 Thomson Reuters. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Thomson Reuters content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Reuters. 'Thomson Reuters' and the Thomson Reuters logo are registered trademarks of Thomson Reuters and its affiliated companies. APRIL 17, 2002 / 12:00PM, ODP.OQ - Q1 2002 Office Depot Earnings Conference Call You say, well geeze it was 9.9 in the first quarter, well I've said all along, we're going to use some of our efficiencies and some of our leverage in improvements to try and grow our business. We backed a little bit away from the large account segment a year and a half ago, I wasn't comfortable about our ability to do it profitably. I am today. That tends to have a lower gross margin mix with it, and tends to come with it a little operating cross reduction compared to medium and smaller sized accounts. The other point is, there's a point where frankly, I mean you may not want to hear this as a shareholder, but this business can get too profitable, it creates an umbrella, I don't want to invite. But this is still, you know, a plus eight percent business, we've said it all along, I still think it is, I don't think it's a ten percent business. I think if we get it to that point we'll use our buying power which we think we have, our efficiency which we think we've got, and we'll be more aggressive on market share account by account, and do it smartly. But this is a eight percentage, eight percentish operating performance business. Dan Wewur - Deutsche Bank Alex Brown Well just if I follow up, just one question on that. You know in the past you've talked about being rational on pricing for contract accounts. I think they've been how you've talked about, you know, trying to get a 21 or 22 percent margin on that business. Given that you've made so much progress in reducing your cost structure, could you not get more competitive in pricing for the contract accounts, and thereby enhancing your top line? And still, you know, get that eight or nine percent division margin? Bruce Nelson - Office Depot, Inc. - Chairman and CEO Pricing for contract accounts is somewhere between an art and a science. I've been in this business a long time, and you have to look an account by account basis in addition to pricing Dan (ph) you've got to look at the service requirements of the accounts, some accounts you can take lower margins and make money based on their service requirements, some accounts are higher margins. I just think this segment is an opportunity up for us to grow share in. As I said, we over the last year have been reluctant to go at it heavily. We've added some resources to it, it's partly reflected in our G&A costs, as we've added sales resource to this channel. I don't, I don't, I don't mean to portray we're going to get irrational on pricing, because we're not. This is a company driven to get return on assets, return on net assets and profitability. We'll do it wisely, we'll do it smartly, we'll do it account by a time, we'll do it strategically. And this is, this is a segment that we're investing in because we believe we can generate good margins, good roll (ph) up, but to talk about pricing strategy in a broad aspect beyond that isn't appropriate for a call like this. I -- rationality is important to all of us, but where we can, we want to grow our business, and we're focused on growing that business. Dan Wewur - Deutsche Bank Alex Brown Great. Thanks a lot. Good luck. Bruce Nelson - Office Depot, Inc. - Chairman and CEO Thanks. Operator And our next question comes from Erin Rubinson (ph) of UBS Warburg. 8 THOMSON REUTERS STREETEVENTS | www.streetevents.com | Contact Us ©2020 Thomson Reuters. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Thomson Reuters content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Reuters. 'Thomson Reuters' and the Thomson Reuters logo are registered trademarks of Thomson Reuters and its affiliated companies. APRIL 17, 2002 / 12:00PM, ODP.OQ - Q1 2002 Office Depot Earnings Conference Call Erin Rubinson - UBS Warburg Hey guys, two questions on the sales side. Number one, you talked about, while the comps were down 1.7 percent at retail, you mentioned furniture was down four, technology was down 13, and then at least in the body of the release it says a number of core office supply category comps were positive. What was I guess, north of the minus 1.7 to have pulled it up that much given you've only given us the categories that were low? Bruce Nelson - Office Depot, Inc. - Chairman and CEO Well, I would answer generally are -- first of all, just kind of a parenthetical for a minute, I think we tend to break out more details about our business than any of our competitors by product category. I don't want to go beyond what I've broken out. Furniture and technology are important because they're high-ticket items, they're somewhat indicative of the economy. Needless to say, if you do the math, and I'm now telling technology the way I define it, which is laptops, desktops, monitors, printers, digital cameras, are now 15 percent of our North America retail mix, down from 25 almost a year ago. I say if you do some math on that, you'll find that our, that over half our business is core office supplies, and by definition in totality, you have to be comping up. It doesn't mean every category is comping up because it's not, but the, but we got, but the core of our supply business, our basic supply business is obviously positively comping. It varies by category. As much as all of you would like to know exactly by category, I'm not prepared to talk at it more category than what I already do. It's already, as I said, more than most of our competitors do. Erin Rubinson - UBS Warburg OK. And then on the average ticket and transaction, you mentioned that your ticket was a little bit better. Is that average selling price, or reduction in deflation versus items per transaction, and on the transaction side would you have thought that your transaction count would be up, given your new ad campaign? And then I'm done. Bruce Nelson - Office Depot, Inc. - Chairman and CEO OK, thanks Erin (ph) . You know, because averages get you in serious trouble when you look across the chain of the number of transactions we have in retail. I don't think we've seen any real price degration in technology. The average items tends to be about the same as it's been. I think it's a very small encouraging sign at this moment, but in the aggregate, our customers when they aggregate up, are buying a little bit more. Two, as it relates to your comment about an ad campaign. We re-launched our brand, what we stand for, we're three months into that re-launch. I don't think that you can measure a brand and advertising in a three-month period of time, as to whether it drives transactions or traffic. Frankly one of the things about some, companies like Office Depot where we have multiple channels, our brand advertising has the impact of far more than just retail. Clearly it helps our e-commerce sales, clearly it helps our small to medium sized account sales. So I think from our perspective we're pleased today with the performance of our ads. It's still early in the process. We've got some new ones coming out for back to school and holiday, but I think branding and advertising is a long-term thing, not a month-to-month, quarter to quarter thing. Somebody once said you waste 50 percent of what you advertise you just don't know where you waste it. That's probably a true statement. But overall I think our advertising campaign is doing what we it to do, three months in to what we plan for it to do both internally and externally. Erin Rubinson - UBS Warburg Thanks Bruce. 9 THOMSON REUTERS STREETEVENTS | www.streetevents.com | Contact Us ©2020 Thomson Reuters. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Thomson Reuters content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Reuters. 'Thomson Reuters' and the Thomson Reuters logo are registered trademarks of Thomson Reuters and its affiliated companies. APRIL 17, 2002 / 12:00PM, ODP.OQ - Q1 2002 Office Depot Earnings Conference Call Operator And our next question comes from Matthew Fessler (ph) of Goldman Sachs. Matthew Fessler - Goldman Sachs Thanks a lot. Excuse me, good morning. Just a couple of quick questions here. First of all Bruce, to get a little more specific about your earnings potential of BSG, clearly you delivered expenses at a lower level than you've seen at any point in time recently. Is there anything seasonal about the rest of the year that would suggest that the expense ratio would need to be any higher than it was in the first quarter? Bruce Nelson - Office Depot, Inc. - Chairman and CEO The only seasonal thing is we get into leverage Matt (ph) . We do get our first quarter tends to be, in BSG, one of our higher quarters in absolute sales performance. One of the things that we said, I said, we would do 18 months ago, is we'd prove to all of you that there is such a thing in our warehouse's fixed and variable costs. 18 months ago all of our costs, up to 100 percent variable, revenue went up 20 percent, costs went up 20 percent. We do have a fixed element of our costs in our North American warehouses, and as the absolute sales dollars in a quarter decline, not necessarily in comps, but just in quarter, it gets more difficult to leverage and therefore the expenses as a percentage get different. If you're asking do I think we're going to keep our handle on absolute dollar costs, absolutely I do. And I still think there's improvement left in our North American business. This comes at a time by the way, when we're getting enormous pressure on delivery costs. I mean, delivery costs in the form of the aftermath of September 11th still means that the carriers that deliver packages for us, and our own delivery systems are more expensive and we've gotten this improvement even facing that pressure. So I think its impact is based on leverage, if you will, as quarters vary somewhat in their total revenue. Matthew Fessler - Goldman Sachs Now just to make sure that we understand the direction in which BS, business system moving, you talked about some softness on the West coast, but nonetheless it appears as if your same location growth in this business is a bit better than it was in the fourth quarter. Bruce Nelson - Office Depot, Inc. - Chairman and CEO It is an improvement over the fourth quarter levels. Matthew Fessler - Goldman Sachs OK, so ... Bruce Nelson - Office Depot, Inc. - Chairman and CEO ...financial statement. Matthew Fessler - Goldman Sachs So it's not as if we have to fight the tide of eroding business condition in BSG as we think about the expense ratio? 10 THOMSON REUTERS STREETEVENTS | www.streetevents.com | Contact Us ©2020 Thomson Reuters. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Thomson Reuters content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Reuters. 'Thomson Reuters' and the Thomson Reuters logo are registered trademarks of Thomson Reuters and its affiliated companies. APRIL 17, 2002 / 12:00PM, ODP.OQ - Q1 2002 Office Depot Earnings Conference Call Bruce Nelson - Office Depot, Inc. - Chairman and CEO Yeah, I think, this is a business I think that's significantly impacted by the overall domestic economy, and in particular, the outlook of the Fortune 300 accounts, Fortune three or 400 size accounts that either grow and add on people, or they continue to lay people off, and so this is still a business because of the large account segment, that's highly dependent upon a better North American economy, and I don't pretend to be able to understand the economy well enough to be able to give you more insight. I just think we've got some larger accounts that will come into our business now, beginning in the second quarter. These are wins that we got late last year. I think that's going to help our business somewhat. So we've got improving trends in this segment sequentially for each of the next three quarters. We believe the comps if you will, sequentially in the second quarter will be better than the first, third better than the second, and fourth better than the third. Part of that's the anniversarying and part of that's some things we think we're doing. Matthew Fessler - Goldman Sachs Got you ... Bruce Nelson - Office Depot, Inc. - Chairman and CEO And that's not anticipating a huge benefit from an improving North America domestic economy. Matthew Fessler - Goldman Sachs Now, say that's what's in the contract business which you've been discussing, it seems like you are refocusing to some degree on the large national accounts. What kind of competitive environment do you find yourself stepping into in that business, and how does it compare with where it's been over the past couple of years? Bruce Nelson - Office Depot, Inc. - Chairman and CEO I would say it's a very strong competitive environment. We've got three very strong competitors that are good at what they do. I mean this is a scratch, dig and claw business. You've got to earn the business one account at a time, and you've got to do it with a total package that goes beyond price. I think it's a relatively rational marketplace in totality. You clearly get some marquis accounts in this business segment, that irrationally takes place on a marquis account or two. But overall I think the competitive nature of this business is that all of us want to deliver shareholder returns, at least it appears that way in the public stuff they all talk about, and I mean BT, or Corporate Express, excuse me, Boise Cascade and Staples. So I don't, I think it's a more consolidated environment than it was three years ago. Sure there's some people that aren't here, that were here three years ago. It's a tough environment, it's a competitive environment, we've got great competitors. And I think we've got to, I think we can, I think we can grow share in this segment. Matthew Fessler - Goldman Sachs My final question. You find yourself here at the end of the first quarter with an awful lot of cash. If your stock continues to do well, and your convert is not put to you later this year, you're going to find yourself sitting on more than you might have expected just a few months ago. You know, what is your plan for deploying that cash, it's certainly more you can deploy in the existing business, there's not a lot of, there's not a lot of bank debt to take out here, so are you thinking about buying back additional stock -- what would your deployment look like? 11 THOMSON REUTERS STREETEVENTS | www.streetevents.com | Contact Us ©2020 Thomson Reuters. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Thomson Reuters content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Reuters. 'Thomson Reuters' and the Thomson Reuters logo are registered trademarks of Thomson Reuters and its affiliated companies. APRIL 17, 2002 / 12:00PM, ODP.OQ - Q1 2002 Office Depot Earnings Conference Call Bruce Nelson - Office Depot, Inc. - Chairman and CEO Well first of all I want you to know this is a very high quality problem. Matthew Fessler - Goldman Sachs Fair enough. Bruce Nelson - Office Depot, Inc. - Chairman and CEO Somewhat different than I faced 18 months ago, had some other problems that weren't high quality ones. This one is a high quality one. Two is, it's not a long history yet, it's a couple of quarters. There is, without getting specific, I do think there are opportunities to grow this business both domestically and outside the United States that may require some use of our cash. Fourth, I am, and we are committed as a company to improve our credit ratings. I've said that 18 months ago, we have continuous dialog with the credit rating agencies. I want them to look at Office Depot and I want them to say these, this company has earned a higher credit rating. That takes a pristine balance sheet, cash. As it relates to the long-term thing, what you do with cash, the reality is as I've said before, this executive group of managers is committed to growing shareholder value. Period. If you want to see how that works, take a look at our proxy where we think we have aligned the interests of shareholders very much with the interests and the motivation of our leadership. And we will use that cash in one way or another, over a period of time, to drive shareholder value. Period. Matthew Fessler - Goldman Sachs Thank you very much. Thanks a lot. Operator And our next question comes from Colin McLanahan (ph) of Sanford Bernstein. Colin McLanahan - Sanford Bernstein Hey Bruce, was hoping you could give us maybe a little bit more color on Europe. What's the situation kind of look like on the ground there, any sense of when you think comps might improve? And then longer term, you know, kind of the BSD question as well, you knew you'd talked about that being a 13 to 15 percent operating margin business. Is there any change in the pace of investment you're planning that would impact that outlook? And then again, longer term any change in thinking the pace of the growth for Europe? Bruce Nelson - Office Depot, Inc. - Chairman and CEO OK, several questions. The first one is, when do I think comps are going to improve in North America retail. Colin (ph) I've been working at this for 18 months and haven't got it right yet. Colin McLanahan - Sanford Bernstein Bruce, international, not in A.R. 12 THOMSON REUTERS STREETEVENTS | www.streetevents.com | Contact Us ©2020 Thomson Reuters. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Thomson Reuters content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Reuters. 'Thomson Reuters' and the Thomson Reuters logo are registered trademarks of Thomson Reuters and its affiliated companies. APRIL 17, 2002 / 12:00PM, ODP.OQ - Q1 2002 Office Depot Earnings Conference Call Bruce Nelson - Office Depot, Inc. - Chairman and CEO International? Well, you know, first of all this softening that took place in the first quarter is really the first signs of some softening across the continent in Europe. And it's across most the countries so I know it's not operational, I know it's not executional. Our own view at the moment is that's at least for the next two quarters that we'll see that softness in our catalog business. As I, as we commented in our release, I think we can mitigate some of that softness through our growing BSD business. From our own perspective that softness is likely to put a two to three, two to three cent pressure on our own numbers about profitability to give you the magnitude of it. We think we can make some of -- by that, that includes the continued currency issues that we have. If you'd have said to me I thought we'd have a euro of 88 or 86 cents right now I'd have said no way. Colin McLanahan - Sanford Bernstein Didn't think so either. Bruce Nelson - Office Depot, Inc. - Chairman and CEO Yeah, so, I don't like -- that continues to impact the translation results. So I think some softness, at least for the next two quarters in our own forecast throughout Europe and the rest of the world in the Viking catalog model. This had offset by the growing BSD presence. To your question about invest in the long-term, this is still a 13 plus percent return on investment, or return on sales business over time. We continue Colin (ph) to look for ways to grow in Europe. I've said all along it's a market that's larger than the U.S., it's more fragmented. I believe there are opportunities to accelerate growth in Europe, either by accelerating the entry of new countries, and/or looking at opportunities to maybe acquire in certain segments. Retail is not our primary strategy in Europe. We do have a retail strategy in France, that we're delighted and excited about. We're investing in it. So I think, I think we have a lever called how much do we want to spend how fast. We do have a commitment to grow shareholder value, we have to blend that always. And so we'll accelerate sometimes, we'll slow down sometimes, particularly our entry into new countries. I mean at one point we had plans to enter another new country late this year. We've moved that off a little bit, probably more until next year, as a result of the softness we've seen, plus our desire to continue to generate consistently improving results. This is a business we're proud of, it's a business we make a lot of money in, it's a high return on net asset business, it too has very positive cash flow. Our building cash balances are not only domestically, they're internationally. This is a good business segment, we think we know how to manage it and lead it. We'll grow our share in it over a period of time. It still represents a unique opportunity for Office Depot and frankly, differentiates us in terms of growth from our two primary superstore competitors in North America. Colin McLanahan - Sanford Bernstein Thanks Bruce. Operator And our next question comes from Gary Bolter (ph) of Credit Suisse First Boston. 13 THOMSON REUTERS STREETEVENTS | www.streetevents.com | Contact Us ©2020 Thomson Reuters. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Thomson Reuters content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Reuters. 'Thomson Reuters' and the Thomson Reuters logo are registered trademarks of Thomson Reuters and its affiliated companies. APRIL 17, 2002 / 12:00PM, ODP.OQ - Q1 2002 Office Depot Earnings Conference Call Brian Nagle - Credit Suisse First Boston Hi this is Brian Nagle (ph) for Gary Bolter (ph) . I just have a couple of quick basic questions. First off, your tax rate in the quarter was 35 percent versus 37 percent a year ago. Should we be using that rate going forward now? And what's the reason for the decline? Bruce Nelson - Office Depot, Inc. - Chairman and CEO The answer is, as Charlie Brown, my CFO just nodded yes. That is the neighborhood of the tax rate that you ought to use going forward. I'll let him comment as to why that is. Charles Brown - Office Depot, Inc. - Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer It's really the benefit from our international tax planning. And as our international income becomes a bigger part of our total income, that allows us to move our tax rate down, so this rate of 35 percent should be used for the year. Brian Nagle - Credit Suisse First Boston So is that 35 ... Bruce Nelson - Office Depot, Inc. - Chairman and CEO I do, I might add by the way, that with the dramatic improvement in our stock price, we're getting a little more dilution that we planned in our calculation of shares outstanding. If you remember right, this is a company 18 months ago that had 85 percent of its options under water. As the stock has grown more rapidly than frankly most of us anticipated, we hoped for it but didn't anticipate it. We do have some offsetting dilution in EPS calculations as we've got more shares coming into the base as a result of, as the result of improving stock price. We do have to remind all of you an authorized $50 million buyback on our stock and we're at the end of the first quarter, about 20 some million into that buyback. We continue to buy that back incrementally, it's meant to offset dilution, we frankly have dilution in shares coming at a faster rate than our buying back stock, again it's another high quality problem. Brian Nagle - Credit Suisse First Boston So Charlie, you guys were planning for the 35 percent tax rate at the beginning of the quarter? Charles Brown - Office Depot, Inc. - Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Yes. Brian Nagle - Credit Suisse First Boston OK. 14 THOMSON REUTERS STREETEVENTS | www.streetevents.com | Contact Us ©2020 Thomson Reuters. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Thomson Reuters content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Reuters. 'Thomson Reuters' and the Thomson Reuters logo are registered trademarks of Thomson Reuters and its affiliated companies. APRIL 17, 2002 / 12:00PM, ODP.OQ - Q1 2002 Office Depot Earnings Conference Call Bruce Nelson - Office Depot, Inc. - Chairman and CEO In that neighborhood. I mean, appreciate you can't get a tax rate down to a basis point, but we were planning in the neighborhood of 35, 36. I mean you get done at the end of a quarter, that's a, I don't think you can be so finite to say it was 35. Were we planning for a slightly lower tax rate? Yes. Eileen Dunn - Office Depot, Inc. - Vice President of Investor Relations and Public Relations Brian (ph) it's Eileen. I think most analysts have 35 percent in their models now. Brian Nagle - Credit Suisse First Boston OK, great. Thanks. And the other question is, could someone comment on this, but could you talk about the trend of retail comps as the quarter progressed? Bruce Nelson - Office Depot, Inc. - Chairman and CEO The tend as the quarter progressed ... Brian Nagle - Credit Suisse First Boston The trend. Bruce Nelson - Office Depot, Inc. - Chairman and CEO Yeah. Brian Nagle - Credit Suisse First Boston The trend in retail comps. Bruce Nelson - Office Depot, Inc. - Chairman and CEO Yeah, if you look at January, February, March, progressive improvement. So each month was a little better than the previous month. So March was the best comp trend in the first quarter. Meaning less negative than the quarter in total. January was the worst comps in comparison. So improving trend. Brian Nagle - Credit Suisse First Boston Great. OK, thanks a lot. Operator And our next question comes from Danielle Fox (ph) of J.P. Morgan. 15 THOMSON REUTERS STREETEVENTS | www.streetevents.com | Contact Us ©2020 Thomson Reuters. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Thomson Reuters content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Reuters. 'Thomson Reuters' and the Thomson Reuters logo are registered trademarks of Thomson Reuters and its affiliated companies. APRIL 17, 2002 / 12:00PM, ODP.OQ - Q1 2002 Office Depot Earnings Conference Call Danielle Fox - J.P. Morgan Thank you, good morning. Could you comment on the 2Q outlook for EPS, and just your general expectations for comps by segment? You mentioned easier comparisons and I'm wondering when this year you expect the two-year comp trend to turn? Bruce Nelson - Office Depot, Inc. - Chairman and CEO Yeah Danielle (ph) I think that, I'm not -- the thing, all of you as analysts have done your best job to take a look at the second quarter. The consensus of the quarter right now sits at 20 cents. I don't have any change from that direction to give you. I will, as I said earlier, we will, as I said earlier, towards the end of May give all of you our traditional mid-quarter update. At that time, I'll give you insight into comps across business segment, I'll give you insight into earnings trends for the quarter, I'll get more precise if I can on EPS for the second quarter, but I'm going to save those comments until the end of May. But needless to say, remaining comfortable with 30 percent growth targets for 2002 by definition I'm comfortable with the growth targets for the second quarter. Danielle Fox - J.P. Morgan OK, and just a kind of broader question about the full year, about you know, just the two year comp trend given the easing comparisons when we'll actually see an improvement in the, in the two year comp trend for the total company or any of the individual segments? Obviously international is a little bit weaker. Bruce Nelson - Office Depot, Inc. - Chairman and CEO Well, yeah, I think what we sell, you have to do by business segment. Danielle Fox - J.P. Morgan Yeah. Bruce Nelson - Office Depot, Inc. - Chairman and CEO The second quarter retail will be better comps than the first. The third quarter could be about the same, maybe a little worse than comps than the second. We got a back to school anniversary we did extremely well on. That directionally is the same. We think our fourth quarter retail will be our best comps in quite some time, and they'll be positive. And that gets you to basically neutral for the year. We said earlier our BSG comps we anticipate quarter by quarter improvement in the BSG business. International, we in spite of the softness, we do anticipate better comps in the second quarter. That's got to do with mailing plans, holidays in Europe and a variety of other things, and a growing BSD business and the growing impact of our two new countries, Switzerland and Spain. And we think those comps continue to improve throughout the year, and when you get done with the year we think on comp basis for the year, we'll be in the neighborhood of, hold on a sec here. For year comp for the company. Yeah, a couple points -- well let me -- Danielle (ph) we'll get back to you off line on that. Danielle Fox - J.P. Morgan That'd be great. 16 THOMSON REUTERS STREETEVENTS | www.streetevents.com | Contact Us ©2020 Thomson Reuters. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Thomson Reuters content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Reuters. 'Thomson Reuters' and the Thomson Reuters logo are registered trademarks of Thomson Reuters and its affiliated companies. APRIL 17, 2002 / 12:00PM, ODP.OQ - Q1 2002 Office Depot Earnings Conference Call Bruce Nelson - Office Depot, Inc. - Chairman and CEO That segment and I don't, I haven't looked at how that rolls up yet. Eileen Dunn - Office Depot, Inc. - Vice President of Investor Relations and Public Relations Rolls up to a total sales growth for the year of around mid-single digits. Bruce Nelson - Office Depot, Inc. - Chairman and CEO A total sales growth mid-single digits for the company for the year. Danielle Fox - J.P. Morgan OK, great. Thanks very much. Operator And our next question comes from Jack Belos (ph) of Midwood (ph) Research. Jack Belos - Midwood Research Hi. Regarding the office supply business, just that category in total. What's been the trend in sales in that category this quarter and the past few quarters? Bruce Nelson - Office Depot, Inc. - Chairman and CEO Well I think as our, as our negative comps have declined in North America retail, since we completed the re-merch and the SKU and the rationalization we completed in the second quarter in North America last year, we said that that would drive better comps and better margins, and our supply categories have positively improved sequentially third quarter, fourth quarter, first quarter. So we continue to see directionally signs of that business improving. I think that's a couple of things. I think one is that when we did re-merchandise our stores, we got adjacent fees better than we ever had them before. And that's when a customer buys a low margin item like a one inch black binder, they often buy some indexes or other labels to go with it that tend to be higher margin items, and that drives comps. Second of all, we've been focused on driving comps in our core business, and so improving trends sequentially to answer your question. Jack Belos - Midwood Research Would you quantify that in terms of being low single-digit improvement in this quarter? Bruce Nelson - Office Depot, Inc. - Chairman and CEO No, I won't Jack (ph) only because I said, I said earlier, we quantify far more than our competitors. Directionally our supply sales are positive, they're not positive in every category -- I'm not trying to hide, it's just directionally I'm trying to give you direction. As I said, I don't want to get into the point where we're talking about comp trends by category. 17 THOMSON REUTERS STREETEVENTS | www.streetevents.com | Contact Us ©2020 Thomson Reuters. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Thomson Reuters content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Reuters. 'Thomson Reuters' and the Thomson Reuters logo are registered trademarks of Thomson Reuters and its affiliated companies. APRIL 17, 2002 / 12:00PM, ODP.OQ - Q1 2002 Office Depot Earnings Conference Call I talk about furniture and technology because they're such high-ticket items, they have such a big impact on the company, they've had a negative impact far greater than anything else on comps. I'll continue to talk about those in the future, and lump the rest of our product sales in our retail into a large basic category called basic office supplies. Jack Belos - Midwood Research Regarding the roll out of the payroll scheduling. How many stores did you say that's in currently, and when do you expect to have the entire chain that way? Bruce Nelson - Office Depot, Inc. - Chairman and CEO It's 100 plus stores, and we'll have the entire roll out done by late May, early June. Jack Belos - Midwood Research Oh, OK. Thank you very much. Bruce Nelson - Office Depot, Inc. - Chairman and CEO You're welcome. Operator And at this time I would like turn the conference over to Miss Eileen Dunn and Mr. Bruce Nelson for closing comments. Bruce Nelson - Office Depot, Inc. - Chairman and CEO Thanks for taking your valuable time to listen to our results for the first quarter. As I said, I think I'm encouraged by all the progress the company's made over the past 18 months. I think you can see it in consistency, I think you can see it in quality, I think you can see it in our results. We're still faced with some uncertainty in a domestic economy, some softness in the European economy, in spite of that we continue to do well. Our ability to accelerate earnings growth beyond the 30 percent is, as many of you pointed out, dependent on increasing growth here in North America. We see some signs of it, hopefully that will continue. We will give you more insight to that at the, towards the end of May. In the meantime, this is a management team committed to making Office Depot the most compelling place to work, shop and invest. We think we've done an admirable job of improving our metrics. We continue to focus on the things that drive shareholder value. That's what it's about. Thanks for listening and thanks for your support. Operator Thank you for attending Office Depot's first quarter 2002 earnings conference call, and have a good day. 18 THOMSON REUTERS STREETEVENTS | www.streetevents.com | Contact Us ©2020 Thomson Reuters. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Thomson Reuters content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Reuters. 'Thomson Reuters' and the Thomson Reuters logo are registered trademarks of Thomson Reuters and its affiliated companies. APRIL 17, 2002 / 12:00PM, ODP.OQ - Q1 2002 Office Depot Earnings Conference Call DISCLAIMER Thomson Reuters reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes. In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized. THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON REUTERS OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS. ©2020, Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved. 615592-2020-07-15T11:23:23.847 19 THOMSON REUTERS STREETEVENTS | www.streetevents.com | Contact Us ©2020 Thomson Reuters. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Thomson Reuters content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Reuters. 'Thomson Reuters' and the Thomson Reuters logo are registered trademarks of Thomson Reuters and its affiliated companies. APRIL 17, 2002 / 12:00PM, ODP.OQ - Q1 2002 Office Depot Earnings Conference Call
REFINITIV STREETEVENTS EDITED TRANSCRIPT FAL_pa.TO^G08 - Q1 2002 NORANDA INC Earnings Conference Call EVENT DATE/TIME: APRIL 24, 2002 / 8:00PM GMT REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us ©2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. TRANSCRIPT Operator Good afternoon and welcome to Noranda Incorporated First Quarter 2002 Earnings Results Conference Call. During the presentation all participants will be in a listen-only mode. Afterwards, we will conduct a question and answer session. At that time, if you have a question, please press the one, followed by the four on your telephone. As a reminder, this conference is being recorded Wednesday April 24, 2002. I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr. David Kerr, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. Please go ahead, sir. DAVID KERR Thank you very much, operator. Good afternoon and welcome to everyone. Joining me in Noranda boardroom today are Derek Pannell, our President and Chief Operating Officer; and Aaron Regent, our Chief Financial Officer. There are also some other operating people in the room who will be available for questions and discussions as they go in that direction. As you may have read, Noranda reported earnings for the first quarter of $1 million, which is a loss of 2 cents per share, after taking into account-preferred dividend. And, while this is far from ideal, I would like to point to the turnaround that this represents when you look at the cash operating margin, which has increased despite lower metal prices. We've been able to record an increase an increase in cash operating margin because we have increased production across virtually all of our business. When compared to the first quarter of 2001, an impressive 73 percent increase in mined copper, 22 percent in mined zinc, and 8 percent in mined nickel. These were, in turn, as a result of the intensive capital investment of the program we've had over the past five years and are now making an impact on our bottom-line Also impacting our bottom line has been improved performance in American Racing Equipment and Aaron will just discuss the other new strategy is making this difference. We also raised $400 million cash in the past quarter, just past the end of this quarter when it will close through the sale of 45 percent of the Noranda Income Fund, which owes all of the CEZinc refinery. And, the refinery, as you know, has been a consistently outstanding performer. This allows us to raise a sizable amount of capital to enhance our financial flexibility while still maintaining an interest in an add-operative facility. We've been active in getting Falcon Bridge and Noranda to work more closely together on areas that make sense, such as with our copper operation and in certain corporate functions. It has been a period of intense activity at Noranda, and these efforts, combined with our improved asset base, have put in Noranda in an excellent position to benefit from an improvement in metal prices and the economy. On that note, I will ask Aaron if he would take us through the financial picture that he has. AARON REGENT Great. Thank you, David. If I could speak first of the net earnings slide, which is part of the presentation that has been distributed, the cash operative margin, as David highlighted was 252 million in the quarter compared to $199 million last year. Later in the presentation, I'll walk through a breakdown of the various components of the cash operating margin. Below that line, depreciation and amortization expense increased from where we were last year really reflects an increase in the production base of the company the corresponding higher depreciation charges that goes with it. Our other expenses increased from last year as well, many as a result of higher interest expense as we stopped capitalizing interest against a number of our projects, and, also -- which was somewhat offset by a lower interest rate. Overall, our earnings for the quarter were $1 million, compared to $24 million last year. If I could turn to the next slide, this next slide highlights the main variances between this quarter versus last year. You'll see that metal prices, on a comparable bases were lower than last year and reduced earnings by $32 million. This was offset by -- partially offset by increased volumes, particularly from the contributions from Antamina, Lomas Bayas, offset somewhat by the Falcondo operations, which were partially idled during the quarter. Foreign exchange was positive compared to last year. And, the other line, which are costs, was really higher interest expense compared to last year. The first quarter of last year there were also some unusual items we, in the first quarter this year, we really didn't have any notable unusual items. Last year, we just want to remind people that there was a U.S. tax recovery of approximately $39 million, which positively impacted our results in the first quarter of last year. 2 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us ©2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. APRIL 24, 2002 / 8:00PM, FAL_pa.TO^G08 - Q1 2002 NORANDA INC Earnings Conference Call Similarly, the strike at Sudbury operations negatively impacted our results on a comparable basis, that cost the company about $30 million. Metal prices, compared this quarter versus last year, we're down significantly across the board. I think zinc was down 22 percent, copper down 12 percent, nickel down 5 percent and aluminum down 12 percent. So, you can see the impact that that has had on our results. If I could now turn to the slide which is headed the cash operating margin, I'll walk through the various components of these. Overall, our cash operating margins were 27 percent higher than last year. Turning first to the copper group, this includes the, essentially, the South American operations of the company, the Antamina mine, the Collahausi mine, Lomas Bayas mine and the Altonorte smelter. We look at the copper group; copper sales volumes and operating margins increased significantly, primarily as a result of the contributions from Antamina and Lomas Bayas. If I could turn to Antamina first to make a few comments, Antamina contributed 29 million to our cash operating margins, or $13 million to our earnings in the quarter. The contribution from Antamina was positive, but lower than we had anticipated for a few explainable reasons. First, the copper zinc production was below what we anticipated with the lower head grades and recoveries. Really a result of the discrepancy in the mining of different benches than planned, as well as the mining of additional but economic lower grade ore that was incognita from undrilled areas, which was previously assumed to be waste. Cash operating costs were 41 cents per pound, also a bit higher than what we had anticipated, because of, principally, because of lower byproducts revenues, really lower zinc revenues from lower zinc production and lower zinc prices were the main reasons. Collahausi contributed $32 million to earnings, which was slightly below last year despite a significant reduction in copper prices. This was due to a strong performance of the mine, both on a production side, as well as lowering unit cost, which helped to mitigate a lower realized copper price. Lomas Bayas also contributed quite positively to our first quarter results. A cash operating margin of 15 million, the earnings contribution was $9 million, what exceeded what our expectations were. Net operating cash costs of 46 cents per pound, which is very competitive with many other mines of the world. Altonorte experienced a formally known negative operating margin, which is -- always coming out positive, but it was better than last year. The operating margin reflected lower volumes but were partially offset by lower site costs. Our production targets were slow what we anticipated due to the delay in the start-up in the reactor and associated equipment related to the phase 3A expansion of Altonorte. This equipment began operating on March 13 versus our original plan of January 1, but I can see that that reactor start-up is proceeding well and it's expected to reach plan operating parameters in the second quarter. I'd like to turn to our zinc group. Zinc group had a loss of $9 million in the quarter, compared to earnings of $3 million last year. This is quite a significant achievement, particularly when you look at the fact that zinc prices declined by 22 percent over the comparable period and the zinc group were able to partially offset the substantial reduction in the zinc price by lowering the unit cost by almost 7 cents per pound compared to last year. Our primary aluminum operations margin were below last year, due primarily to lower aluminum prices, which was also partially offset by lower until costs. Indiscernible) volumes continuing to increase with the ramp-up of a single-piece anode project. We expect for this to continue throughout the balance of the year. In our aluminum foil our foil results were below last year. Shipments of foil were 8 percent higher than last year, but below what we had anticipated due the continued softness in the foil market. Fabrication spreads also declined due to a lighter gage product mix and also a softer market for value-added products. Turning to our nickel operation, nickel operating margins were $26 million compared to $1 million last year. Nickel sales volumes from I&O were significantly higher than last year. Last year, you will recall was affected by the strike in Sudbury. The ferronickel product was lower this year as a result of the shutdown of Falcondo. Falcondo has restarted operating in February and was in full operating in March. Our Canadian copper recycling business, this next slide highlights really the Canadian operations with the exception of Kidd. I have a separate slide on Kidd. When we look at our results our operating margins were essentially comparable to last year. Production levels were on or ahead of plan. Results continue to reflect the mix of feed materials, and generally lower realized margins due to a decline in recycle fees. However, we were able to partially offset this by the treatment of higher complex materials, which also has higher margins. The first part of the results were also positively impacted by our higher capital sales volumes and better copper prices. Kidd Creek, Kidd had an operating loss of $21 million in the quarter, compared to a loss of $1 million last year. Mine operations performed better than anticipated. However, the results were negatively impacted primarily as a result of lower metal prices compared to last year. Looking at American Racing, our first quarter results from a cash operating perspective were breakeven compared to a loss of $10 million last year. OEM sales volumes continued to decline while aftermarket sales are seeing steadily increasing. The major reason for the improved performance was a reduction 3 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us ©2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. APRIL 24, 2002 / 8:00PM, FAL_pa.TO^G08 - Q1 2002 NORANDA INC Earnings Conference Call in costs, which resulted from a number initiatives, which we have communicated to you before. In particular, the closure of the Warsaw facility, significant staff reductions and overhead reductions. Also, energy costs were lower this year compared to last year, at the first quarter last we did have a number of disruptions due the energy situation in California. If I could turn to our consolidated statement of cash flow, make a few comments there; our cash flow before working capital changes was significantly higher than last year, $209 million compared to $118 million. That's all due positive on the part of the negative side, our working capital, also increased significantly by approximately $168 million. Particularly relates to a number of different things, first Falcondo restarting operations so there's natural buildup of working capital. Second, with higher metal prices, particularly in nickel, it also increases the value of working capital. As Antamina continues to ramp up there's a buildup of working capital on that business. And, as well, in general, there is some seasonal buildup of inventories and working capital as we go into the December season for a certain of our businesses. Our capital investments, capital is $189 million in the quarter, which is significantly below last year's number of $313 million. Of that $189 million approximately 60 million related to maintenance and the balance through capital projects. Projects such as the Altonorte expansion, the Kidd mine and so on. A brief comment on our balance sheet, our debt levels increased in the quarter and our debt to capitalization ratio is now approximately 45 percent. With the proceeds we'll receive from the Noranda Income Fund of approximately $400 million, we'll receive on closing, which is scheduled for May 3. This will help us to meet our objective of not increasing our debt level in 2002 from our 2001 levels. Hopefully, we can exceed that objective and see a decline in our overall level of debt. That concludes my comments at this point. DEREK PANNELL This is Derek Pannell, I'd just like to add one or two detailed remarks, perhaps on the operations to elaborate on the points that Aaron has made. On the aluminum side, operating results here generally improving. On the quantum leap project, continual ramp there. We're starting to see sales beginning to pick up on -- that's on our aluminum foil area. And, also, American Racing the strategy to emphasize the aftermarket rather than the OEM side of the business is progressing well and, in fact, is giving us the improving results that Aaron mentioned there. On Antamina, we're presenting in the completion test phase that will take some time. It's over the 90 days, but that is underway at the present time. Last month we produced the first magnolia concentrate at Antamina. And, one thing that I think that's worth noting and it was a concern to some people outside. And, that was the ease of transfer between the different ore types Antamina being our other 50 complex ore body. Switching between ore types and getting them down the pipeline. In fact, our experience to date has been that these transfers between ore types can be accomplished quite efficiently. And, that's very good news there and gives us a fair amount of flexibility. At Altonorte, as Aaron said, we did start up the reactor. The startup was late by about a month and a half. We also started up the slag mill. We ran it first on slag that produced from the rebook furnace. It's now running well on slag produced from the reactor. The reactor is running well. With the existing acid bump we're getting good sulfa fixations, well over the 90 percent, and the remaining part of the project, the acid plant and the oxygen plant that are due to be completed in 2003, we certainly appear to be on time and on budget for the remainder of that expansion. In Collahausi, again, as Aaron said, good results there. And, we're moving from the Ohenato the Rosereo Pitwe will be and have led the first two contracts for the major equipment in order to accomplish that transfer. That's the crusher and the overland conveyer, which will allow us to operate the Rosereo Pit and that's still into the original mill. At Gaspe we also announced the permanent shutdown of the Gaspe operation, that's happening this week, at the end of April. And have already begun to divert concentrates -- the concentrates contracts that we are maintaining, they have already been diverted to the Horne or elsewhere. The magnesium Danville the ramp up continues very steadily there as we have replanned we're up about 20 cells. And, we're now; I think at a level an operating level that is quite substantial. So, that enables us in terms of gas velocity through ducts operating ease at a level, an operating level that makes it somewhat easier to troubleshoot some of the problems that we might have in the future. So, again, things at the Magnesium plant are ramping up quite well. 4 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us ©2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. APRIL 24, 2002 / 8:00PM, FAL_pa.TO^G08 - Q1 2002 NORANDA INC Earnings Conference Call On the nickel side I think everybody has, perhaps, seen the release that we had on the results at Nickel Rim, I think were very positive, spectacular even. The Raglan mine continues to operate very well. We're at a million tons there. And, we have contract negotiations underway. We're not at the stage where we have a recommendation from the union to the members to accept a contract there. So, that is looking quite positive. And, that contract expires at the end of this month. But, every sign is that we should get acceptance by the members over the next three weeks of a renegotiated contract. As Aaron mentioned, also, we hit a shutdown of Falcondo operation in Dominican Republic for approximately three months. That started up during the quarter and during March was operating at full capacity. The startup went very well. Finally, on the integration of Noranda and Falconbridge, that has moving at pace. We have the structure decided upon and communicated to employees that we will be using in the Toronto office, particularly for the back office corporate support functions, and, also in the Santiago offices as we bring the two companies together. And, so that part of it is certainly moving well and also we're starting to see some other areas for collaboration between the two companies and one of those examples would be the acid that is produced by Altonorte and consumed by Lomas Bayas. Again, quite a substantial savings can be made there. I think that summarizes the comments that I have on the operations. DAVID KERR OK. And, I think that (indiscernible) comments. Operator, you said to get back to you when we were ready to take questions, and we are. THE OPERATION Caller Aaron, for a change we didn't have any unusual items in the quarter. That makes it clean. The second quarter, I note that the CEZinc deal is down, what would the number that you're going to reporting on the book for your adjustment as a usual item or if any? AARON REGENT From an earnings perspective, Terry? Caller Correct, from PLO'spoint of view. AARON REGENT One of the things we need to sort out is what the working capital balance is going to be. But, I think in the press release we highlighted in the neighborhood of $50 million of net, net gain, that's after taxes and provisions. Caller Okay, so the (indiscernible) is still to be working capital is still to be adjusted between the assets, right, between the entities? 5 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us ©2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. APRIL 24, 2002 / 8:00PM, FAL_pa.TO^G08 - Q1 2002 NORANDA INC Earnings Conference Call AARON REGENT Yes, we've got a pretty idea of what it's going to be. We just need to sharpen the pencils to put a pen in it. But, in terms of earnings, the anticipated gain in the order of 50 million. And, that's after transaction costs, taxes, things like that. Caller Derek, could you please talk about the upcoming production in the quarter in terms of concentrate grades and the head grades and your outlook for the second quarter and also for the year, what the number is going to be EPF? What about antidotal evidence from different sources here, what are the numbers going to be in terms of concentrate and the concentrate grades? What were the numbers in the first quarter too? DEREK PANNELL Well, I'm not sure I've got the numbers in the first quarter. Just to talk, perhaps, first a little generally about Antamina. What has happened, in the mine, the open pit, it's quite -- still quite tight in there with the number of benches is quite limited. And, that's normal at the beginning of a mine, particularly with the topography that is present there. And, with the additional ore that was found, it was assumed before it was being waste, there was just much higher in zinc then it left us relatively little options other than to do what we did. So, that's the main reason behind that. I don't have the details for the prediction, but we're looking during the first quarter the average grade was 1.3 percent copper, 1.4 percent zinc, which is about 20 percent lower than what we had planned. And, I don't have the detailed tonnages that are expected for the rest of the year. There's no reason to expect that they would be for the remaining three quarters any different than what we had previously predicted. Caller So, you're not changing your forecast for the year, whatever they were, despite the first quarter of the grade adjustment? DEREK PANNELL No, I think we won't probably catch up on the first quarter, but the remaining three quarters would remain the same as predicted. Operator Caller Regarding Brasscanwhat is there current ownership of Noranda and is there any reason to expect that this will either shrink or grow and which? AARON REGENT Brasscan owns approximately 40 percent of Noranda right now and they have stated that they intend to continuing owning the shares of Brasscan. Caller Status quo, then? 6 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us ©2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. APRIL 24, 2002 / 8:00PM, FAL_pa.TO^G08 - Q1 2002 NORANDA INC Earnings Conference Call AARON REGENT Owning their shares of Noranda, let's correct that one. Yes, that is our understanding. And, we've actually gone up and spoken with the CEO of Brasscan just on that subject just so that we'd be able to answer this question as we're doing right now. And, he said we intend to keep on owning of Noranda. Caller And, he didn't say we're going to buy as much as we can get, then? AARON REGENT He did not comment further. Operator Caller First, you made the comment regarding lower recycling feed through the period. I wonder if you could add some color to your outlook and expectations as to what sort of recycling feed volumes you hope to put through over the next few years, particularly in light of the joint venture. And, secondly, how much interest was capitalized during this quarter? DAVID KERR The recycle the recycle volumes, at the present time we don't have concrete plans for any changes as a result of the coming together of Falconbridge and Noranda, say the two smelters. And, what I have said is that I believe there are a lot of opportunities for that. What we are seeing is the startup of the Hewlett Packard Plant in Nashville, Tennessee and we'll get the plant improvements through that. And, again, the continuing exactly the same, I think, from Rhode Island Micro-metallic in San Jose and the Sacramento Plant. But, on the recycle side, again, once thing that has affected us has been the issue that we've had with Beryllium and that has restricted the amount of feed we've been particularly careful on that. But, that is a problem that we're working on with our suppliers. And, I would expect that feed to increase again. Caller Has the beryllium source feed been coming from a specific source and is the Hewlett Packard joint venture likely to exacerbate that? DAVID KERR No, the Hewlett Packard joint venture is generally has been -- in fact, as far as I know, has been completely free, although, we have checked it. The areas -- we do know it's certain shippers. It's not just one. It's several shippers. It depends on the different feeds that they ship. But, as we become educated about this issue, they too are becoming educated and understand what sorts of feeds are likely to contain levels of beryllium that we cannot accept. So, the market, as well as ourselves, are becoming much more aware of this issue. I think industry in general is becoming more aware of it. 7 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us ©2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. APRIL 24, 2002 / 8:00PM, FAL_pa.TO^G08 - Q1 2002 NORANDA INC Earnings Conference Call AARON REGENT The amount of capitalized interest in the quarter was approximately $11 million. Operator Caller That does pretty lean, I'm surprised, but in any case, actually, I don't know how wants to tackle this question, but using the 15 percent, parameter, we get these questions a lot by the way, help me out, what price would you use for Noranda to get that 15 percent number for metal. AARON REGENT Is this your return on equity number, Terry? Caller Yes. Just give me a combination number that you guys are using internally for instance that you can achieve that 15 percent number given the asset base, the expanding asset base you have to make. AARON REGENT The 15 percent ROE is a target number for us. We would not say that with the current asset mix and base we have today that we could at long-term trend prices produce a 15 percent rate of return on equity over time. We still have pieces of the puzzle, which we need to fill in to get to that level. However, I will say, Terry, that with the asset base we have today, we're probably capable of long-term trend prices of more than doubling their returns on equity we've had over the past 10 or 15 years. Caller One of the dilemma's that I have, David and Aaron, is that, I mean that this is going back to the -- showing my age here, going back to the 70s, looking at the Noranda balance sheet begin because it has delivered and there's not question about that, you agree with that. And, now we are, you know, now paying approximate net interest cost of about $150 million, and that's almost like, you know, it's about 80 percent or 60 percent of your operating margins. So, that itself is a result of REO on the table. And I'm sure you're addressing it. I'm just wondering what else you're addressing on beyond the prices in terms of balance sheet issues? AARON REGENT We can't ignore prices if you're going to use it as a percentage of margin you're talking about there, because what you're doing is looking at margins that have metal prices that are inflation adjusted terms the lowest they've been in about 60 years. So, that's not really going to help us much with answering your questions. Caller Okay, but the low-term target of Noranda of a balance sheet target of about 20 to 25 percent hasn't changed, that you guys traditionally promoted as the long-term target for Noranda for--. 8 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us ©2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. APRIL 24, 2002 / 8:00PM, FAL_pa.TO^G08 - Q1 2002 NORANDA INC Earnings Conference Call DAVID KERR We would still like to have debt somewhere between 25 and 35 percent of our total capitalization, yes, that's correct. And, there are times when we are above that and time when we are below and in both cases, we need to take appropriate action to the get back to the more modest levels, or the median levels I should say. AARON REGENT Terry, I also had a comment about our debt in the way we manage our liquidity. We've always had a policy to have a significant undrawn bank lines to support the ebbs and flows of the cash flows of the company. And we continue to do that. And have those available. Second, if you break down our debt, well over or close to half of it would be, really project debt or debt of Falconbridge. So, on a corporate level, our debt levels, I think it's important to sort of isolate or understand that that difference as well. Caller No question Falconbridge carries a lot of debt into the consolidation, no question about it. Okay, thanks Aaron, thanks, David. AARON REGENT Just a last comment, it is obviously above the thresholds that we are very cognizant and have as an objective a desire to reduce that significantly. Caller But, I mean, the question really is, do you want to use metal prices as your leverage to reduce that or do you want to do more asset oriented balance sheet deals, thereby can reduce it, or both? AARON REGENT I think we have to look at, look, I'm the finance guy, so it's my job to look at all those things. Operator Caller Derek, could you talk a little bit more about Magnolia production forecast for this year, and whether or not any of the planned production has been spoken for or sold, thank you? DEREK PANNELL We have Bob Sipplein the room here whose Senior Vice President for Magnesium; perhaps Bob can give you a fuller picture on Magnolia. Bob? BOB SIPPLE The production plan for this calendar year is 30,000 tons of products and at this time, roughly about 70 percent of that is firmly contracted. And, as we ramp up production during the year, the remaining tonnage will be sold on a spot basis. But, so far this year, we've had no difficulty in placing 9 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us ©2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. APRIL 24, 2002 / 8:00PM, FAL_pa.TO^G08 - Q1 2002 NORANDA INC Earnings Conference Call the tons. We have excellent relationships formed with dye casters in the aluminum industry to place the tons. So, we're still pretty much on plan for the 30,000 tons for this year. Operator Caller Most of my questions have been answered, but one final one, Derek, as you look around the various divisions Noranda on a scale of say one to 10, how would you rate your level of satisfaction with the performance of these divisions? DEREK PANNELL Well, one's never satisfied, so I think this will -- I see a lot of very good people, but I see a lot of room for improvement and I see a lot of opportunities for growth. On a scale of one to five, I'm reluctant to put them on a scale. I think this whole variation. And, I think there are some very positive plants since I've come onboard, we've shut two of the plants down, so I put them on a scale of zero right now and I think the Kentucky Will Plant and the Gaspe smelter I think there are some that are really excellent, Lomas Bayas, which has done -- exceeded far beyond our expectations I would rate it 10, let's say five and that gives us a lot of scope for work. Caller And, you would say that was the same, what, across the divisions, or--? DEREK PANNELL No, I would say it was very varied across divisions and across assets. Operator Caller Just when you mentioned on magnolia that you're selling some of your magnesium spot, I mean, what type of pricing would you be realizing for spot magnesium in the markets, or are you still selling it, although you're selling it into the spot market, are you still selling at a significant premium? And, maybe, sort of when we're on the same topic, could you maybe just refresh my memory if you've capitalized anymore costs at magnolia what the current capitalized cost of that project is? BOB SIPPLE The terms of the prices that we're realizing within the magnesium industry, we tend now to disclose the prices because there's not a LME reference price, so it's very much a negotiate feature between the supplier and the consumer. But, a lot of this spot tonnage, the small amount that we haven't firmly contracted. We would certainly look to place it just with additional business with existing customers as they tend not to be fully contracted for their own requirements to leave some for spot. So, it would go, really, just with increased sales with our strategic accounts as the first choice and if necessary just sold spot to other customers during the course of the year. 10 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us ©2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. APRIL 24, 2002 / 8:00PM, FAL_pa.TO^G08 - Q1 2002 NORANDA INC Earnings Conference Call Operator Caller I'd like to just -- you missed the second half of David Charles's question, what's the current capitalized cost at magnolia? AARON REGENT I'm sorry; I was about to answer that. On a 100 percent basis the project cost is probably just in excess of a billion dollars, which 80 percent is Noranda's. DAVID KERR Okay, operator, thank you. We have no particular closing remarks we'll just say thank you to all of those who've joined us on the line this afternoon and we'll talk to you next session. Thank you. DISCLAIMER Refinitiv reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes. In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized. THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES REFINITIV OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS. ©2020, Refinitiv. All Rights Reserved. 617166-2020-12-03T20:18:00 11 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us ©2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. APRIL 24, 2002 / 8:00PM, FAL_pa.TO^G08 - Q1 2002 NORANDA INC Earnings Conference Call
REFINITIV STREETEVENTS EDITED TRANSCRIPT UNA.AS^K20 - Q1 2002 Unilever N.V. Earnings Conference Call for Europe EVENT DATE/TIME: APRIL 26, 2002 / 7:45AM GMT OVERVIEW: Overall company sales growth of 1.8% for Q was in line with expectations. Q+A Review: Geographies broken out; innovations in various products. REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us ©2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS Howard Green Unilever - Head of Investor Relations James Edwardes - Jones CONFERENCE CALL PARTICIPANTS Graham John HSBC Andy Smith (ph) Julian Hardwick ABN Ambro Tim Potter Goldman Sachs Silvan Masso (ph) Morgan Stanle David Lanf (ph) Invest Tax Security Julia Bannon (ph) Arnold Langwa JP Morgan Robert Yanbas ING Bearing PRESENTATION Howard Green - Unilever - Head of Investor Relations Ladies and gentlemen, good morning and welcome to this presentation of Unilever's the first quarter results. A transcript of this presentation can be accessed via our website. That transcript contains the usual formal disclaimer as to forward looking statements within the meaning of relevant US legislation, and this presentation and discussions are conducted subject to that disclaimer. I propose not to read the disclaimer, although we take it as read into the record for the purpose of this presentation and conference call. So now let me turn to our results for the first quarter, and I remind you that unless otherwise stated the financial numbers used in this presentation are in euros at constant rates of exchange, that is average 2001 rate. On chart one, you will see the key features of our results for the quarter. Firstly underlying sales growth was in line with our expectations of 1.8 percent. In the leading brands, sales growth was 4.6 percent of last 12 months with 3 percent in the quarter. We've seen good momentum through the quarter with underlying sales growth of the leading brands of over 6 percent in March. Secondly our operating margin before exceptional items and goodwill amortization moved ahead strongly by 250 basis points to 14.9 percent in the quarter. This progress is being driven by substantial increasing gross margins which are ahead by 160 basis points. Thirdly, net interest of 320 million euros is 26 percent below last year, reflecting the combination of lower (ph) rates, benefits the strong cash flow from operations, good management of capital employed and proceeds from our disposal program. As a result of the strong increase in operating profit and lower interest, earnings per share before exceptional items and goodwill amortization advanced by 37 percent in the quarter. Compared to pre-close, we saw stronger progress in gross margins. Expenditure on advertising and promotions and associated costs was also slightly low because of activities rephased in quarter two. This re-phasing contributed six percentage points to the EPS BEIA growth. The amount of advertising and promotions involved was 30 million Euros, equivalent to less than two percent was spent in the first quarter. Let me now put these results in the contexts of our operating plans of 2002. The value creation culture embedded in Unilever and shows that our focus is on growth which is profitable growth. The surest way of securing profitable growth is to work at getting the business fundamentals right. So, let me illustrate what this is meant for us as we implement our path to growth strategy and how it has influenced our quarter one results, the ninth quarter of our 20 quarter program. As we implement our strategy, different products of our business will have different priorities at any 2 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us ©2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. APRIL 26, 2002 / 7:45AM, UNA.AS^K20 - Q1 2002 Unilever N.V. Earnings Conference Call for Europe particular moment. Those priorities are, however all consistent with the building blocks of our strategy and in combination, they will get us to our 2004 target. Let me turn to chart two and try and go behind the numbers to tell you what I mean through a few examples. Firstly, near 10 billion euro annual turnover skin, hair and deodorant mass (ph) market businesses grew by a little over 7 percent in the quarter, by over eight percent per annum over the last three years. With good growth and excellent operating margins, we certainly have a good example of sustained value creation. We've had a good start for the year and it is only the phasing of innovation for the slightly diluting out quarter one growth rate. Secondly, within our six billion euro plus annual turnover spread in cooking product business, our leading brands which account for over four billion euros of sales grew by more than three percent in the quarter. The emphasis is on proving that we can sustain growth on the back of our proven track record of generating attractive margins. The second part of our strategy is about finding value enhancing strategies to exit from our oils businesses. The sale of refineries in Europe and Mazola are good examples of what we are doing. The third example is our near seven billion euro annual turnover laundry business, which shows fast growth in the quarter with around a 350 basis point increase in operating margin. We have a regionally differentiated strategy. In Western Europe, we have regained share compared to a few years ago, and we have improved profitability by building on our market strength through innovation. Even in a very competitive market of quarter one of this year, we've seen two percent volume growth. In the US our strategy is to be a profitable number two and with a top comparison sales growth in the previous year, we have given up some share that significantly stepped up profitability. Watching the rest of the world where we lead the market, the emphasis is being on improving profitability as we continue to move share forward. Incidentally, our total laundry business has got on an average of four percent plus over the last three years and grew in mid single digits in March month as the emphasis on improving profitability, particularly in our rest of the world market turn back towards growth. I'll now turn to our near ten billion euro annual turnover savory and dressings business, which includes olive oil. Our leading brands are 90 percent of this, and we've seen underlying sales growth in them of around 1.5 percent. Here the emphasis is being on ensuring that we have created the firm foundation from the best foods integration, particularly with regard to brand understanding and sales force integration on which - on which the leverage, a regular flow of innovation. We have secured that sound foundation and again we've seen momentum through the quarter with underlying sales growth of approaching three percent in March. We have a strong innovation program scheduled for the rest of the year. It is here that we've, also the world class brands that provides, the vehicles for accelerating the growth of our foods business and developing an emerging market. These brands, plus our own parallel and experience, representing exiting growth from profit opportunity as we move forward with our plans. Now for tea based beverages, our 2.5 billion euro plus annual turnover business saw a smooth decline in sales, but this discarded two very different phases in the implementation of our strategy. On the one hand we saw a low double digit growth in Lipton Ready-to-Drink tea in both Europe and North America as we continue to expand our brand into the 350 billion euro soft drinks market. In North America, there has also been a particularly positive response for the March launch of Lipton Brisk Lemonade. On the other hand, in the leaf tea we see - we see two factors of faster growth and action which in this quarter produced an underlying sales decline of around 10 million euros. Firstly, we continue to see strong growth in Central and Eastern Europe, particularly in Russia, as we extend the reach of our leading brands. Secondly, however, this growth has been offset by deliberate reduction of unprofitable volume in our business in India as we continue to focus on improving margins which are ahead by some 320 basis points in the quarter in India. Lastly, ice cream and frozen foods businesses with annualized turn over of over 7.5 billion euros grew underlying sales by very close to four percent in the quarter, and also moved operating margins ahead by 270 basis points. In many ways, these businesses show the power of faster growth, cutting of tail brands, exiting from certain countries or finding different business models, a rapid implementation of restructuring initiatives and a focus on innovation, have all contributed to a rejuvenation of businesses where we have strong market positions. Again, we have to sustain this performance with all the building blocks in place to do just that. I hope these few examples give you a flavor of the different aspects of faster growth as it gets implemented in our business around the world. 3 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us ©2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. APRIL 26, 2002 / 7:45AM, UNA.AS^K20 - Q1 2002 Unilever N.V. Earnings Conference Call for Europe Let me now turn to the overall sales growth for the quarter by focussing on the common themes within these strategies and there implications for our first quarter growth rate. These are showed on chart III, within the sales - within the three percent leading brands growth for the quarter, foods grew 2.6 percent and Home and Personal Care grew 3.5 percent. In March month, we saw leading brands growth of over 6 percent with both foods and HPC contributing strongly. In foods, the majority of the growth came from volume whereas in the Home and Personal Care, there was a high proportion of price. The greater contribution coming from price in the Home and Personal Care reflects the high proportion of business in developing and emerging markets which have experienced devaluations. This takes us through to our first common scene. In a number of developing and emerging markets, we're in the process of restoring margins which have been affected by the devaluation led cost increases. As is normal at this stage of the cycle, underlying sales growth slows. This happens because pricing action is offset by an increase in the rate of underlying volume decline as consumer markets shrink. Our focus is on maintaining the strength of our market position and coming out of the crisis stronger than when we went in. We know from experience that this trend starts to revert itself, we would expect to see this as we move through 2002. We also know our approach works for the long term health of the business. In 2001, the developing and emerging market sales were 34 percent of sales, up from 20 percent in 1991 and the growth rate before acquisitions in current euro is around 9 percent per annum. Operating profits has increased slightly above this rate. Our second common scene is that we've a very different phasing of innovation this year compared with last year, particularly in Asia-Pacific and North America. In 2001, as we said at the time, we had well over third of our big hit innovation in the market in the first quarter. Just to remind you, this included innovation in spreads and cooking products, the launch of N-joi (ph) in the UK, launch of the Ready-to-Drink tea partnership with Santori (ph) in Japan, the launch of laundry tablets, and innovation in Surf liquid in the US, the launch of easy to use wipes under the Lever 2000 and Dove brands in the US. The launch of Sunsilk branded as Sedal in Mexico. The different phasing of innovation in 2002 is simply that, phasing, not the lack of initiative and it is not that last year's initiatives have run out of steam, a number of factors have to be taken into account in the practical reality of an upgrading plan when it comes to the timing of innovation. This year, our program of market initiative is more backend loaded, but it is also as least as intensive as last year, with a sustained rate in home and personal care and a step-up in foods. The impact of margin recovery and innovation phasing on the growth of the leading brands is well in excess of our 150 basis points. In the to the business, we have a fast attrition in the non leading brands with the decline of around 4.3 percent in the quarter compared with the growth of 80 basis points in the first quarter of last year. We've always said harvesting of value from the non-leading brand part of our business will vary quarter by quarter, that's the most important issue for us just to make sure we extract the value and it is not to worry about consistency of sales delivery. I think we have shown that we're in control of this process and our margin progress and the momentum in our restructuring programs provides the supporting evidence. Tail attrition has impacted underlying sales growth by some 80 basis points. In respect to amend the tail of our business, we also see that the effect of disposals is to reduce sales growth by 300 basis points to give reported sales of 12.3 billion Euros, a decline of 1.3 percent from the prior year. Let me wrap up the section on the sales growth by reconfirming that we remain comfortable with where we are in terms of the business cycle in those markets where we have suffered economic dislocation, our innovation plans for 2002 are on track and we continue to manage the tail of our business to maximize value. We also remain confident of achieving our objective of sustaining the growth of our leading brands and that - and that these brands will represent approaching 90 percent of total sales by the end of 2002. Let me now turn to how we've continued to drive forward our operating margins, this is shown on chart four, the basis point quotes are all expressed as an effect on total Unilever operating margins. Gross margins moved ahead by 106 basis points in the quarter. The key drivers of the improvements in gross margins have been firstly continued benefits from our procurements and supply chain restructuring programs which contributed some 160 basis points of gross margin. Secondly, improved mix contributed some 60 basis points through disposals on a larger proportion of higher margin categories. 4 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us ©2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. APRIL 26, 2002 / 7:45AM, UNA.AS^K20 - Q1 2002 Unilever N.V. Earnings Conference Call for Europe Thirdly, good progress with recovery of devaluation led cost increases through pricing actions. There is still a short fall between cost increases and price of around 60 basis points, a substantial improvement on the 130 basis points we saw in quarter four of last year. We increased investments behind our brands in the quarter not withstanding the relatively high spent, rate of spent in the first quarter of last year, while advertising promotion as a percentage of sales was 50 basis points below last year, this is more than offset by higher investment in trade and consumer price promotions which we call above the line expenditure of a 150 million euros. You remember that we deduct above the line expenditure in order to arrive at the reported sales. Continued savings from both low medium rates and media efficiency measures are also estimated to be worth some 50 basis points of sales in the quarter. In advertising and promotions, we saw a step-up during the quarter as we introduced innovations to the market. In March month, advertising and promotion as a potential to sales with 30 basis points ahead of last year, lower associated costs at 20 basis points for operating margin progression with an additional benefit of 20 basis points from lower overheads. Let me turn to chart five to highlight the other key financial indicators for the first quarter. Operating profits before exceptional items and goodwill amortization rises by 282 million euros or 18 percent EBITDA before exceptional items which is in current money is 2.1 billion euros in the quarter. Exceptional items for the quarter were a 197 million euros which includes 222 million euros of restructuring and 25 million euros profit on disposals. Associated costs include in operating profits BEIA, were 40 million euros in the quarter. Interests payable is 320 million Euros, 26 percent lower than last year with approximately half of the reduction coming from a lower debt level through cash flow from operations and disposal and the balance from lower rates. Cash flow from operating activity was 1.1 billion euros in the quarter and if we look at this on a moving annual total basis, it has gone up from 5.6 billion euros in quarter four of 1999 to 7.6 billion euros in this quarter. Net debt of the quarter end at current rates exchange was 23 billion euros compared with 27.8 billion euros a year ago. Net gearing is 72 percent. Profit before tax of 962 million euros is 62 percent above last year, reflecting the improved operating margin and a lower interest charge. Effective tax rates for the quarter was 44.9 percent reflecting the non-tax deductibility of Bestfood goodwill amortization. The underlying tax rates for normal trading operations and excluding the goodwill affect is 33.9 percent. Now let me turn to chart six which shows how our reporting currencies have developed in the quarter and shows the impact on EPS of current exchange rates. When expressing current rates of exchange EPS before exceptional items and goodwill amortization grew about 33 percent in the quarter. In the quarter, we saw a strengthening of the Pound Sterling against the euro by 2.8 percent and of the US Dollar against the euro by 4.8 percent compared with a year ago. The current exchange rate results also reflect a 50 percent devaluation of the Argentinean peso. Chart six shows the current exchange rates EPS and the EPS BEIA on the percentage change for the Euro, the Pound Sterling and the US Dollar. I'll now review the quarters results and performance by region beginning with Europe on chart seven. Sales growth was broad-based across categories and includes the continuing strong contribution from Central and Eastern Europe. Underlying sales growth was 2.4 percent with a hundred basis points coming from price. Key highlights in the development of our business have been in Western Europe, underlying sales growth of 5.2 percent in branded spreads and cooking products, driven by the sustained progress for our innovation. Good growth in Savoury and dressings of 3.6 percent fueled by continued strong growth in Amora, growth of over 4 percent in Knorr and a strong contribution from Hellmann's in the UK. In our Home and Personal care mass (ph) consumer businesses underlying sales were ahead by a little over 4 percent. We have seen good growth in skin, hair and deodorants with the key drivers being Dove, Rexona and Axe. Dove shampoo and conditioner is now available in over 10 markets and the initial purchase pattern is encouraging. In laundry, volume growth has been only partially offset by competitive pricing environment. In Central Eastern Europe, we have seen growth in low double digits driven by particularly strong growth in Russia in tea, savoury and dressings, skin and hair and in savoury and dressings and household care across the rest of the region. Operating margins are 190 basis points, ahead of last year, reflecting the benefits of supply chain restructuring and Bestfoods synergy. I'll now turn to North America on chart eight. Sales were 3.5 percent lower through the effect of disposals. Flat underlying sales reflect the tougher comparator through later phasing of innovation this year, the impact on turnover of increased commercial investment in foods and the one off effect on trade stocks of K-Mart store closures. In foods underlying sales grew two percent with good volume growth partly offset by negative pricing impacts of 30 basis points. ice cream continue to grow very strongly, our leading spreads brands also performed well. Ragu Express continues to make progress and Lipton Brisk Lemonade was launched successfully in March. 5 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us ©2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. APRIL 26, 2002 / 7:45AM, UNA.AS^K20 - Q1 2002 Unilever N.V. Earnings Conference Call for Europe However, overall sales growth was held back by the impact on turnover of trade investments behind a Wish-Bone product launch, the migration of Five Brothers Bertolli and promotions behind the Hellmann's brand in response to competitive pricing. Harvesting of tale brands reduced the underlying sales growth by a 140 basis points. We've gained market shares in spreads including Skippy and spoonables with Hellmann's and in Wish-Bone salad dressings. Shares in pasta sauce and side dishes are marginally down due to the phasing of competitive initiatives relative to our own innovation plans. We have an active program to counter this, going forward. In home and personal care, underlying sales declined 2.5 percent with good growth in skin being offset by a number of factors. Firstly, our innovation program is phased late - to later in the year, while the first quarter of last year benefited strongly from launches under the Dove, Swan (ph) , Caress, and Wish (ph) of brands. The effect of this is some 300 basis points to sales growth. Secondly, in laundry, we are focusing on improving profitability and margins have moved strongly ahead. Some loss of share means that overall sales growth was pulled down by some 130 basis points. Innovations in laundry are backend loaded in 2002 compared to 2001. Finally, K-Mart's program of store closures produced a one-off reduction in trade stocks with an effect of some 150 basis points on home and personal care sales growth. Operating margins increased strongly by 390 basis points to 15 percent driven by supply chain savings and Bestfood synergy. Margins were also boosted by lower advertising and promotion as a result of the different phasing of innovation and lower media rates. Lower media rates contribute 40 basis points of this. I'll now turn to Africa, Middle East and Turkey on chart nine. Underlying sales growth of 5 percent is driven by price increases in particular to restore margins in a number of countries where there has been devaluation. This has enabled us to protect operative margin at 9 percent not withstanding tough economic conditions. South Africa performs strongly with good volume growth across dressings, spreads, tea and personal care. Sunsilk was successfully launched building on our experience from Latin America. In Turkey, we continued to see consumer down trading and declining markets reflecting a difficult economy, but market shares and key categories were at least maintained, we have seen underlying sales decline by 10 percent. However, we have also significantly improved profitability. Good sales growth in Egypt and Arabia was offset by difficult trading conditions in much of West and sub-Saharan Africa. I'll now turn to Asia-Pacific on chart 10. Underlying sales growth in Asia-Pacific moved ahead by 40 basis points with a rapid acceleration through the quarter. In South East Asia, we continued to see strong growth in Indonesia across foods, home care and personal care. However, this was partly offset by both the Philippines and Thailand due to tough competitors in the previous year from phasing of innovation. In Japan, we continued to see high single digit growth in home and personal care, driven by Dove following the launch of shampoo last year and Ponds. However, in foods, we see a decline in sales against the strong quarter in the previous year which included the initial sales associated with the launch of our Ready-to-Drink tea alliance with Santori (ph) . In India underlying sales in the quarter declined five percent. This reflects destocking of the trade as we introduced continuous replenishments to our distributors, the impact of the budget where duties had been reduced on skin and hair products, and we have given rebates to the trade for duties already paid, and the continued impact on sales in foods as we focused on improvement in profitability. Our innovation plans were also phased later in the year as we get our housekeeping out of the way. Taken together, sales reduced by 35 million euros which is the equivalence, nearly 200 basis points on the growth rate of the Asia Pacific region. However, these initiatives also have important benefits for our business going forward as we have structurally improved our capital efficiency, strengthened our margin structure and thus further enhance that competitiveness. In the second quarter, we expect to see good top line growth in the region as we build on the innovations launched in March. Further - launched further innovations in the quarter, all markets across the region, I see a pick up in demand in India as the benefits of lower prices in skin and hair seep through to consumers. Operating margins of 300 basis points ahead with a strong improvements in results in both China and India, and 60 basis points of lower advertising promotions, reflecting phasing of innovations, media efficiencies in almost equal proportions. I'll now turn to Latin America on chart 11, sales grew by 1.3 percent with underlying sales ahead by 3.5 percent. Pricing is still the main drivers, we recovered the evaluation led cost increases, harvesting of the tail refused underlying sales growth by 220 basis points. Mexico continues to show very good growth particularly in personal care through Sedal which has now reached the share of almost ten percent through Axe and Dove and in Savori (ph) through the successful launch of Knorr Sazonisimo last year. We also see good growth in Andina led by the launch of Sedal. In Brazil underlying sales moved ahead strongly, deodorants Rexona and Axe and hair through Sedal both grew at more than 20 percent. Spreads 6 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us ©2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. APRIL 26, 2002 / 7:45AM, UNA.AS^K20 - Q1 2002 Unilever N.V. Earnings Conference Call for Europe also performed well from Dorianna (ph) and Becel including Becel Proactive. And profitable volume entailed businesses has been shed as we managed them for value. The current situation in Argentina has severely reduced consumer demands, volumes have been affected as a result. However, our management has deep local experience, we are taking the appropriate actions to preserve the long term value of the business. Market shares are firm in declining markets. Our laundry market shares in Brazil, Argentina and Chile remain firm. Operating margins increased by 200 basis points for the benefits of our savings programs and pricing actions to recover devaluation driven cost increases. That completes my review of the regions and I'll now be happy to take your questions. QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS Operator Thank you Mr. Green, now we will poll for questions from analysts. If you have a question please press the number one on your telephone, if you are listening to the conference call on a speaker phone please use the handset while asking your question, should you wish to cancel your question please press the pound or hash button. Our first question is from Ms. Annie Bonow (ph) , of CFSD. Please ask your question at this time ma'am. Hello? We'll move on to our next questioner, will be Ms. Dominique Bassian (ph) of Banque NSMD, please ask your question at this time please. Unidentified Good morning. Move on please. Operator We will try with our next person. That would be Mr. Graham John of HSBC. Please ask your question . Graham John - HSBC Good morning, Howard I'm here. I've got a couple of quick admin questions before going to the main question. Can you confirm what the - I think it's in the three percent leading brand growth in Q1 and also can you confirm when you expect the to close. Howard Green - Unilever - Head of Investor Relations we continue to expect to close in the second quarter and in the leading brands, pricing is just about two and a half percent Graham John - HSBC OK, thanks. In terms of your interest charge for the full year, clearly you got a substantial reduction in Q1, based on lowest debt levels and lower interest rates, actually if you're through 2002 you - so the cash generation you got certain level of cash coming in. Since, there is nothing implied, sort of you know if you're going to get to your 15 percent operating margin target for the year and you got such strong reduction in interest charge that you're being a bit conservative on your EPS outlook for 2002. 7 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us ©2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. APRIL 26, 2002 / 7:45AM, UNA.AS^K20 - Q1 2002 Unilever N.V. Earnings Conference Call for Europe Howard Green - Unilever - Head of Investor Relations I think, the - everything that we said is, can still, it's consistent with the low double digit EPS growth. I mean, let's just try and look behind the progress of interest. Most of it is said in the speech. Compared to last year round about half of it comes from rates. If you got to look at the yield curve, which I guess is available to most of you, going out, then there is certainly an indication of an uptake in that, and within our outlook for EPS we have taken into account the general shape of the yield curve. We will see how life develops, but as you would have expected from us we have fully considered all the information and the inputs that is available to us. I mean the other part of the interest line is as you rightly say the benefits from disposal program and yet there are the benefits of those flows to come including Mazola when those transaction close. We have - we have also factored those in. I think in looking at overall EPS, you also got to remember that as we exit from those businesses, that there is a dilution effect on EPS. As we said with the outlook statements, that dilution on EPS (ph) BEIA is around 300 basis points, and we got 300 basis points, was based on an assumption of the closure date for and Mazola in particular and the known previous disposals and that timetable is now different to the assumption that went into the outlook. Graham John - HSBC OK thanks and then, I mean just very briefly Howard, can you give us more detail on what's going in Argentina than you - obviously noted in Latin America, volumes down 7.4 over Brazil seems to be stabilizing, Mexico still seems to be falling in all cylinders. What is the volume decline in Argentina at the moment and are you managing to get any price margins for that? Howard Green - Unilever - Head of Investor Relations I mean - lets take the two separate issues, because you asked two questions. If they go - I think you're asking two questions. What's the condition effect and then specifically what is happening in Argentina. The issue first, the whole of Latin America was that - the Argentina was struggling with its economic conditions for a long time, and the rest of the regions effectively were taking actions to the mitigate what was going to happen in Argentina. And that's part of the reason, I guess why we actually saw such a record devaluation in Brazil during 2001. So it looks at the moment as if contagion will be limited. In respect of Argentina itself, then we have seen underlying volume declines of above 20 percent and we have successfully recovered part of that in pricing, not the full effect, you can imagine that the other consequence of that is that you actually more carefully managed some of the other variable parts of the equation in terms of what you are doing in the market place and other discretionary spent items and all of those things are being managed very effectively, I mean the chairman and the CFO of Argentina are both Argentineans, have both been in their jobs for over ten years and managing very confidently and strongly through the current situation. Graham John - HSBC OK thanks, Howard. Howard Green - Unilever - Head of Investor Relations OK. Operator The next question will be from Mr. Andy Smith of Schroeder Mark Sullivan Forney (ph) , please ask your question at this time sir. 8 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us ©2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. APRIL 26, 2002 / 7:45AM, UNA.AS^K20 - Q1 2002 Unilever N.V. Earnings Conference Call for Europe Andy Smith Good morning Howard. Howard Green - Unilever - Head of Investor Relations Hi, Andy. Andy Smith I've got three questions, firstly can we comment on the phasing of your AMP (ph) spent during the balance of the year and are you sticking to your 15 percent AMP to sales target by 2005, that is the first question. Howard Green - Unilever - Head of Investor Relations Right, the - let me deal with the AMP target, what we - what we said as fast growth was the investment in advertising and promotions would increase by an underlying 200 basis points, they happened to be 13 percent at the time and it was - that mathematically gave you 15 percent. We still expect that we will be spending that additional 200 basis points. There are of course changes that happen in portfolio, but anything that happened so far would not bring you to anything more than about 20 basis points on a good calculator difference of 15 percent. So yes, we are sticking with that as an integral part of the fast growth direction. In terms of the phasing and shaping of AMP as we move through the - through the year, then obviously that reflects the pace of marketing, marketplace activities and that is stepping up as we - as we move through the year. I am not going to give you a quarter by quarter phasing, but what I can tell you is that the step-up in marketing is consistent with our low double digits, EPS outlook and as I said in the speech in March month itself we actually moved ahead of the prior month by 30 basis points. Andy Smith Thanks, the second question is just a guidance from the chairman that 90 percent of group sales in leading brands by the year end implies rather disposals are likely. Howard Green - Unilever - Head of Investor Relations As we've always said the management of the tail and extracting value from the tail comes about through two distinct processes within the business. We would by much prefer to achieve get disposals and get the process out of the way. I think it makes a cleaner for us and it certainly makes it cleaner for our investors and everybody else out there. So we will make sure that consistent that our value creation criteria that if disposal is the right way to go then that's the way that we will go. We will equal - equally ensure that the where disposal is not possible that we follow a harvest strategy, and a harvest strategy means that we will trade off volume for the price and reduction in support expenditure in order to, as the words says "harvest the cash from it" and that is why we said as interdentally as part of fast growth that actually looking at the overall top line number is nothing indicative of where we're actually going with the strategy because those declines as we harvest the tail, actually you know, sort of reduce the rate of underlying sales growth in the business. And in quarter one of this year, you've seen the impact of that because we had 4.3 percent reduction that was against the quarter where we had seen in fact an 80 basis points increase, not reduced the overall Unilever top line number. So it considers both of those parts and they - and we also remained confident by 2004 the leading brands will be at 95 percent, close to 95 percent with the business. 9 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us ©2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. APRIL 26, 2002 / 7:45AM, UNA.AS^K20 - Q1 2002 Unilever N.V. Earnings Conference Call for Europe Andy Smith Just one final question, obviously your personal care business, hair, skin and deo, you know, it's continuing to perform reasonably well, but can you comment to that the performance in overall , both in the quarter and over the past 12 months or so? Howard Green - Unilever - Head of Investor Relations I mean, just let me say, it's not often I get a chance to do the advertising, but I think skin, hair and deo is a 10 billion business growing at a rate - that it is grown consistency of rate is grown and with operating margins close to 20 percent is a little better than just performing okay. I think it's stellar example of value creation. So that's my advertising slot over and done with, and incidentally shows how you can grow and produce profits at the same time. In respect of overall, we actually have a very differentiated strategy by region. In respect of Europe, we have some significant areas of strength which we focus on, the - one of the issues as we look at the figures is that we actually in the prior year changed the distribution arrangements in key countries for part of the overall category, and so was showing (ph) an underlying sales decline in overall - in Europe. It is purely the effect of the change in the distribution strategy, because of stocking up with our new distributor in the prior year. So a focus strategy based on countries in Europe and one where we are growing share in those countries. In Latin America, we have a very powerful business in Chile, we have a strong number two position in Brazil focused around the Closeup brand, and we have also areas of strength in North Latin America particularly in Andina and Central America. If I move to North America, that is very clearly an area where we have taken the decision to make sure that we get the right balance between our market position and profitability, and we've been ensuring that that we enjoy exceptional value by taking profit out of that business. If I move to other parts of the world so Asia Pacific, then we have grown a significant number two position, in the overall category in India the market shares of nearly 40 percent. We have a fabulously strong position in Indonesia based around the Pepsodent brand and we have other pockets of strength, so the oral care category is very much one of a differentiated strategy according to region and even by country and one where we've gained enjoy exceptionally good operating margins. Andy Smith Thanks, Howard. Howard Green - Unilever - Head of Investor Relations OK. Operator The next question will be from Mr. Julian Hardwick of ABN Ambro, please ask your question at this time sir. Julian Hardwick - ABN Ambro Hi, good morning to you. Howard Green - Unilever - Head of Investor Relations . Julian Hardwick - ABN Ambro I reckon thinking that you had one fewer trading day in this quarter? 10 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us ©2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. APRIL 26, 2002 / 7:45AM, UNA.AS^K20 - Q1 2002 Unilever N.V. Earnings Conference Call for Europe Howard Green - Unilever - Head of Investor Relations Yeah, that's absolutely correct, but of course, we also had Easter. I mean, I've seen other people writing about trading days, I think, we have generally not talked about trading days, and it really affect the way that consumers consume our brands, so that - that in a mathematical sense yet there was one fewer trading day, but I think it is important that people realize that there was also Easter. Julian Hardwick - ABN Ambro Yeah, tell me. Would you think that they were pretty again each other then? Howard Green - Unilever - Head of Investor Relations Yes, I mean, I would be, you know, happy with that as an assumption, I think that is a fairest presentation of what actually went on. Julian Hardwick - ABN Ambro And in both, the fewer trading day take place in 18th (ph) March? Howard Green - Unilever - Head of Investor Relations Yeah, no, it in fact happened in January, yeah, just the way that the Unilever calendar were, I mean you got 13 weeks in the quarter, we work on the basis of a calendar that goes 5-4-4 and this year, the - well we balanced it out in the January month. Julian Hardwick - ABN Ambro OK. Howard Green - Unilever - Head of Investor Relations And by the way, just so that you can look forward in that, in 2004 quarter 1 of 2004 there's going to six fewer - six more trading days in the first quarter of 2004, compared with the third quarter of 2003, just - then we might actually explain that as being something that, but one day, no, I don't think so. Julian Hardwick - ABN Ambro OK, and how much would the early Easter contributed to the strong growth we saw in March on sale line? Howard Green - Unilever - Head of Investor Relations No, this is -this is related mainly to the phase of innovation, I mean, I've said a number well in excess of six, you know - you know, how we describe these things. It's primarily through the launch activity, I mean I just, you know, we have to take these things in balance, I think it's wrong to get, you know, through, totally focused on one quarter particularly in the case of Unilever when you got in through the implementations or strategies that we are going through just as in quarter four of this year will in fact get one extra day in the - in the calendar. If I have to estimate it, then the leading brands were growing as I said by well over six percent and it might be upto about one percent with my bringing back down to six percent, 11 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us ©2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. APRIL 26, 2002 / 7:45AM, UNA.AS^K20 - Q1 2002 Unilever N.V. Earnings Conference Call for Europe the leading brands growth. I wouldn't change the six percent leading brands growth number in - what you are thinking about is just because of Easter. Julian Hardwick - ABN Ambro OK. Howard Green - Unilever - Head of Investor Relations Add a six in front of it, that's what I am saying. Julian Hardwick - ABN Ambro OK that's nice, but I hear you, and could you also just talk about the strong increasing profits and the health and wellness in beverages business in this (ph) quarter. Howard Green - Unilever - Head of Investor Relations Yeah, sure, I mean possibly it is - what we were talking about under the Asia - Asia Pacific region and that is the shedding of unprofitable tea business in India, you'll also know that, by the way the tea prices have been falling and that has reflected itself down into, that's a pass through for the consumer as well, which also impacts on the beverages sale - sales line as an aside. So the shedding of the unprofitable tea business in India, the lower commodity prices - lower - low tea commodity prices had a margin benefit in Europe, we've been able to retain part of that benefit and also in SlimFast which is - which is in that category, you see the benefits of scale (ph) and also some changes in sorting for the market extensions, marketplace role-out in Europe. We were bringing in products from the US and local European sourcing is in place, that is being done through a third party co-packing arrangements as we would call it, so it has also a good benefit in terms of the capital employed in the business. The other issues would all be common to the other general trends, but those are - those are three areas specific to help them well in this and beverages. Julian Hardwick - ABN Ambro OK, thanks so much. Howard Green - Unilever - Head of Investor Relations Thanks. Operator The next question will be from Mr. Tim Potter of Goldman Sachs. Please ask your question at this time sir. Tim Potter - Goldman Sachs Good morning Howard. 12 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us ©2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. APRIL 26, 2002 / 7:45AM, UNA.AS^K20 - Q1 2002 Unilever N.V. Earnings Conference Call for Europe Howard Green - Unilever - Head of Investor Relations Hi, Tim. Tim Potter - Goldman Sachs You apparently gave us an indication of the sales trends in Central and Eastern Europe, could you give us an indication what happened in Western Europe please? Howard Green - Unilever - Head of Investor Relations Finally I'll give it every quarter, certainly in Western Europe the - our lines of sales were ahead by two percent then with over three percent in the - what we'll call the Ambien (ph) foods round about two and a half percent, oh sorry that's including ice-cream and frozen foods by round about two and half percent and the difference you can find in home and home and personal care. Tim Potter - Goldman Sachs Thank you. A second question, if I may, can you give us indication of how long it may take the company to get their margin in the right sort of position in US laundry? Howard Green - Unilever - Head of Investor Relations OK, let me just - let me just take a brief history talk, I mean in the early 1990's laundry margins in the US were in the very very low single digits. We went through a process of supply chain simplification, overhead reduction with the objective of getting the operating margins back into low double digits. This we had done as we left the 1990's. There was some slippage on that in 2001 including the investments in some marketplace activities, those margins fell back down into single digits. As we look at the operating margin now, we have got them back into the double digit territory, that's been a process that was ongoing through the second half of last year and into the first quarter of this year, that again has come from supply chain initiative. So the that's - and also being more selective about the specific segments of the market in which we're going to - going to operate. So we are comfortable with where the margins are in the first quarter where we got them to and as I said in the speech we have an innovation plan for the second half of the year moving forward, so you know, good job done so far, and it's creating the - has created the funds for us move forward. Tim Potter - Goldman Sachs Thank you, can you remind us how big that business is, by the way? Howard Green - Unilever - Head of Investor Relations Well, the laundry business in, if I told you that the market share is just under 20 cents, I am sure that you got market values that would enable you to work it out. potter: OK, Howard, thank you. Howard Green - Unilever - Head of Investor Relations Thank you. 13 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us ©2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. APRIL 26, 2002 / 7:45AM, UNA.AS^K20 - Q1 2002 Unilever N.V. Earnings Conference Call for Europe Operator The next question will be from Mr. James Edwardes Jones of CSFB, please ask your question at this time sir. James Edwardes - - Jones Morning Howard. Howard Green - Unilever - Head of Investor Relations (Inaudible). James Edwardes - - Jones Two questions if I may on chart four, excuse me, in your presentation, the first is the overhead savings of 20 basis points, looked to have reduced quite sharply from the second half of the last year, is that an indication that the cost saving program is starting to slow, may be the impact of low volume on your cost ratios, and the second question is, I think you've mentioned that in the leading brands, most of the growth in food was from volume and from HPC was in price, but on page four you've got very similar level pricing numbers of both HPC and foods, how do you reconcile those two? Howard Green - Unilever - Head of Investor Relations OK, the - I mean the reference to the greater proportion from volumes was a specific comment to do with March month. The chart four result is the something - it's not something, the chart four is to do with the full quarter. And so that's the issue there. James Edwardes - - Jones . Howard Green - Unilever - Head of Investor Relations In terms of the overhead issue, then one of the things that you get when you actually make a number of disposals is that you obviously get some uncovered overheads as you exit from those businesses, and those as part of the restructuring programs, take a little time to get out, and that is the - that is the main effect of the overhead rates. In terms of the savings programs, then everything remains on track and we are quite comfortable with where we are. There will also be some elements of what shall I call them variable pay type awards get accrued as we move through the first quarter. James Edwardes - - Jones Right. Thank you for that. Howard Green - Unilever - Head of Investor Relations Thank you. 14 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us ©2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. APRIL 26, 2002 / 7:45AM, UNA.AS^K20 - Q1 2002 Unilever N.V. Earnings Conference Call for Europe Operator The next question will be from Mr. Silvan Masso (ph) of Morgan Stanley, please ask your question at this time, sir. Silvan Masso - Morgan Stanle Good morning, Howard. Howard Green - Unilever - Head of Investor Relations Good morning, Silvan (ph) Silvan Masso - Morgan Stanle You just said that the restructuring saving on , I mean and at the same time one of the surprise in the quarter compared with the trading statement is gross margin exemption, sir could you elaborate on that volumes in gross margin, and where is the price coming from, that's my first question. Howard Green - Unilever - Head of Investor Relations I mean the, what we said in pre-close was that we expected gross margins then move ahead by in excess of a 100 basis points. We actually ended up at a 160 basis points and that really is a result of the good momentum that we have got in overall turns of margin - of margin, the coverage particularly in the evaluation current- devaluating currency. The other part of it is that we actually got a higher proportion of higher margin categories within the - within the overall sales made and that has had a leveraging up effect. So we just done better and structurally we are in a better position than we expect it to be and we have gained some degrees of freedom as we move forward. We think that we have created some headroom for ourselves. Silvan Masso - Morgan Stanle OK. And my second question is given that the advertising spending is again lower than expected, is that not an indication that the innovation is pushed back, sort of back on what you were expecting. Howard Green - Unilever - Head of Investor Relations No. Let me just go through the various issues. First of all specifically in the March month which was when number of the innovations that we kicked through advertising promotions, this was up 30 basis point compared to the prior month. As you look at advertising promotions which was 50 basis points down. You should also bear in mind that we have still got media efficiency and media price benefits of 50 basis points. So in terms of the bang to your buck if you want to describe it then we are quite happy where we are and the third issue is that we have spent an additional 150 million euros in terms of what we call above the line expenditure which is deducted in terms of the reported sales number. So as we look at the total investment behind our brands that has increased in returns, admittedly parts of that has been money that has been dealt back to the trade to ensure that we can get at least price changes to actually stick. But, you know that's part of the - part of the process and part of the negotiation that goes on. We are happy with where we are as I said in terms of the overall economic cycle and we are also happy and can confirm that our innovation programs for 2002, our own track and that there is a step up in foods and the program in HPC is the least of intent as it was last year. 15 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us ©2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. APRIL 26, 2002 / 7:45AM, UNA.AS^K20 - Q1 2002 Unilever N.V. Earnings Conference Call for Europe Silvan Masso - Morgan Stanle OK, could do you just tell us whether March last year, you said, I mean AMPs up on last year the few basis points in March, was not last year high or low months of AMP?. Howard Green - Unilever - Head of Investor Relations It was a high month. Silvan Masso - Morgan Stanle Thank you. Operator The next question will be from Mr. Greene of the Capital Group. Please ask your question at this time, sir. We will continue with Mr. David Lang of the Invest Tax security (ph) . Please ask your question at this time sir. David Lanf - Invest Tax Security Good morning Howard. Can You hear me? Howard Green - Unilever - Head of Investor Relations Yes, I can. David Lanf - Invest Tax Security I want to ask about the ice cream business, it had a pretty good quarter comparatively. Could do you just flush out what - what was behind the turn and you mentioned inventories, but could you talk about the European business and perhaps the European frozen food business and then moving on to the developing and emerging markets, what's been going on in Latin America particularly Brazil where I think weather has been pretty filthy in the early part of the year end, what's the performances been there and perhaps in some of the other developing the emerging markets where the companies has been loosing money? Howard Green - Unilever - Head of Investor Relations We will come on to whether the company has been loosing money, David . David Lanf - Invest Tax Security Thank you. Howard Green - Unilever - Head of Investor Relations Yeah, lets go on a quick tour as we quality of the ice cream was. One thing that I - I think is worthwhile saying is that we now got an ice cream business where it made a profit in the first quarter of the year. Now that might sound a bit strange, but actually in terms of history and other peoples 16 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us ©2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. APRIL 26, 2002 / 7:45AM, UNA.AS^K20 - Q1 2002 Unilever N.V. Earnings Conference Call for Europe ice cream operations, the regular flow of profitability is sometimes a concern. We have clearly focussed on improving overall efficiency in the business, making sure that we have got a balance and very effective approach to the home marketplace. If I look in Europe, ice cream is ahead, oh sorry, a total ice cream let me start with. Ice cream is ahead in Unilever by seven percent in underlying sales growth in the first quarter. I think it is also quite dangerous at this time to actually draw any immediate conclusions on the prospects for Europe, given that yesterday it was glorious and today is not quite so bright at the moment. We have certainly made a good start for the European ice cream season and we have a number of important innovations that are going into the market and are being extensively rolled out. So we've also been gaining share in grocery. So overall in Europe, strong sales, yes it's being implored by good weather, but we were making a very good progress. In North America, we continue to perform extremely strongly. We've got underlying sales growth in low double digits, good grew very very well, Ben & Jerry also continued to grow well. In Brazil, your weather forecasting colleagues or weather observers in your extended network have given you the right information, the weather has been extremely difficult and we've had a difficult first two months in ice cream in Brazil, but it was pulled back in the March month, but we have certainly seen underlying sales decline in terms of the ice cream business. Just to - just to reassure you in terms your overall profitability in Brazil however, you know that we use EVA measures charge in the full amounts of the capital employed, and on the EVA calculation ice cream in Brazil is strongly positive. It's a - it's a positive number and it's positive against last years, the variance is positive. Mexico has performed extremely well. So overall in Brazil, in the ice-cream world, we've had a successful start of the year. Let's wait and see how it develops, we are confident about the innovation plans as we move into the European season and in the rest of the world we've got a power house in America in terms of of Ben and Jerry and we have taken actions in the rest of the world to focus on profitable opportunities, we have exited from some countries, we have entered into new business arrangements, new business models in order to make sure that we have got profitable roots forward and that is showing in the numbers. David Lanf - Invest Tax Security Thanks Howard, could you just tell us about the European frozen food?. Howard Green - Unilever - Head of Investor Relations Yeah. David Lanf - Invest Tax Security Thanks. Howard Green - Unilever - Head of Investor Relations European frozen food, we of course came up against, when I let out the list of innovations, we came up against the very strong comparator in the prior quarter from the launch not only of N-Joi (ph) , but I think it's went into other markets as well. We actually see underlying sales decline against that comparator, but that is - that is just that. It's up against a tougher comparator. In terms of the overall profitability of the business, we have again improved the profitability of our frozen foods business in Western Europe. We moved our trading margin ahead by over a hundred basis points, and we have got innovation programs in the higher value added, what I would call meal solutions and on trend foods later in the year. They will happen towards the second part of the year, but we again have got an exiting innovation program in that area. David Lanf - Invest Tax Security Thanks very much. 17 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us ©2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. APRIL 26, 2002 / 7:45AM, UNA.AS^K20 - Q1 2002 Unilever N.V. Earnings Conference Call for Europe Howard Green - Unilever - Head of Investor Relations OK. Operator The next question will be from Ms. Julia Bannon (ph) of . Please ask your question at this time ma'am. Julia Bannon Good morning Howard, it's Julia here. Howard Green - Unilever - Head of Investor Relations Hi, Julia. Julia Bannon Hi. Howard, I've got three questions. The first one is concerning the restructuring and the phasing of it throughout 2002. If you could comment on that and whether your guidance for full year restructuring has changed at all? Howard Green - Unilever - Head of Investor Relations Is it in terms of the savings or of the charge? Julia Bannon No, sorry I've the charge. Howard Green - Unilever - Head of Investor Relations No, it hasn't. I mean the slight difference that there is between the charge in the quarter one in the preclosed guidance, is simply a couple of projects have fallen over into April month of - in accounting terms, that's when they actually get booked. I think the other thing is that I should actually clarify is that when we do the pre-close, I have been tending to give the, not tending I have been giving the gross restructuring number and because the profits on disposals and the closing of transactions is not strongly enough predictable or is not predictable enough to tool ways, we've to include that. So I have been tending to give the gross number. So the number that compared to the 350 that we've given is the 222 that I gave in this page. So no change on our expectations of spent and no change on the total amounts of benefit that comes from the restructuring items. Julia Bannon OK, fine, thank you for that Howard. The second point is actually on the comment you made about the progress of leading brands in the month of March, I think you said Howard that the sales were up there, sort of a six percent. Can you - would you be kind enough to split that up between volume and pricing and talk little bit about the launches that have taken place, I think you said that it was because of the pace of innovation that you have seen a very smart movement upwards in March. 18 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us ©2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. APRIL 26, 2002 / 7:45AM, UNA.AS^K20 - Q1 2002 Unilever N.V. Earnings Conference Call for Europe Howard Green - Unilever - Head of Investor Relations Yeah. I would be guessing if I gave a volume and the price for the - Julia Bannon Guesses are fine, Howard. Howard Green - Unilever - Head of Investor Relations Now, the guess is - all the things that then get reported and then I get . I got people scurrying around here doing some calculations. So I will talk about innovation. Julia Bannon OK, fine. Howard Green - Unilever - Head of Investor Relations The length of the talk about innovation would depend on how quickly to calculate. Let me you just talk about innovation as we - as we move through March, March quarter and March month in particular. I mean, just to say, first of all, that on the food side, we continued to see throughout the quarter, a strong performence from the previous innovations in Pro.Activ and Culinesse. The product, we have rolled out into Central and Eastern Europe, into Poland. I have just talked with David about the roll out of - in ice-cream, Cornetto Soft and the soft ice product. That obviously was a significant impact into March months particulars. There is another ice cream product called Solero Smoother which also has gone to market in March. The new varience on Iglo Pizza went to market, end of February, beginning of March and there are a number of innovations in Slim Fast. We have - we have extented into new powder in the US. We have launched Slim Fast suits in the Netherlands and earlier in the quarter, there was the full relaunch of Slim Fast in Germany. In terms of the rest of the foods, a type of Lipton Brisk Lemonade went to the market in the US, in the second quarter and also wish dressing of marinade. There are a large number of others that I could talk about but, that's give some sense of the momentum that we've got there. If I look at home and personal care, then the continued roll out of Dove has picked up momentum as we have -- as we have worked through the quarter and incidentaly, there is also under depends (ph) the national growth that we are getting in personal care in the Japan market, where our growth rate was in the very high single digits. That I might as well say 9 percent in the first quarter. The normal set of (ph) Dove range extentions rolling. There has been a launch on the Pond's range at the end of February ,running into March month under deodorants. In Prestige, there was a lauch of Wera Vang which I think might have been a February launch. That is - but there were in Europe of scrores of Wera Vang and then, a grouping of sedal and Sunsilk. If I was to have a guess at the price elements of the leading brands, then, I would think that on average, it would be in line with the 2.5 that I gave to Graham Jones . You know, I mean and that really does represents a best guess. In terms of the foods volume part of it, then, that will be higher than the HPC part of it. Julia Bannon Okay, thanks, Howard. And just to say that the perso. Aloe Vera that's being launched, is that - is the UK the first market for that? Howard Green - Unilever - Head of Investor Relations Yes, as far as I know. 19 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us ©2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. APRIL 26, 2002 / 7:45AM, UNA.AS^K20 - Q1 2002 Unilever N.V. Earnings Conference Call for Europe Julia Bannon All right. OK. And my third question, Horward, is on laundry. If you could flush out comparative pricing statement you were talking about and talk about if there is any particular country and on what shares they are doing in those market as well? Howard Green - Unilever - Head of Investor Relations Probably and the most intensely competitive market, at the moment, our markets are in Europe. The competition is extremely active, in particular, in France, and both on pricing and in terms of the amount of promotional space that has been - has been booked by competition in the French market. The German market also continues to be extremely competitive, but we are under represented in laundry in the - in the German market. In terms of the - of the UK, then there is also a fair amount of battling going on. But I have to say, there is nothing beyond what we would normally - normally expect from good healtier - good healthy competition. There is nothing that stands out with the normal amounts of a towing (ph) and throwing. Julia Bannon And what's happening to market share? Howard Green - Unilever - Head of Investor Relations Overall in market shares in total Europe, we have given up some share. I think that we are round about 20 basis points down on the market share in the - in the top performance categories within the things what we would call fine wash which is way of caring for delicates or colored items. Then, we have got a marginally increased market share and there is some trading at what I would call the bottom end of the market where all the branded manufacturers are loosing a bit of space to retails and brands, but that is because, innovations are not there in the market place and that is their fault. Julia Bannon Howard. Thank you very much indeed. Howard Green - Unilever - Head of Investor Relations OK. Operator Our next question will be from Mr. Arnold Langwa (ph) of J.P.Morgan. Please ask your question at this time, sir. Arnold Langwa - JP Morgan Good Morning, Howard. Howard Green - Unilever - Head of Investor Relations Good Morning, Arnold. 20 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us ©2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. APRIL 26, 2002 / 7:45AM, UNA.AS^K20 - Q1 2002 Unilever N.V. Earnings Conference Call for Europe Arnold Langwa - JP Morgan Just in three questions. First of all, could you give us a Life's life sales growth in foods and personal care. I know you have just given us numbers already, then, it would be very useful? Howard Green - Unilever - Head of Investor Relations The lifes life growth in personal care, let me see. Let me say, what is a folder or another sheet, it's five percent in total personal care. Arnold Langwa - JP Morgan OK. And in foods? Howard Green - Unilever - Head of Investor Relations In total foods, it is just under two percent. Arnold Langwa - JP Morgan OK. Thank you. My second question is related to raw materials. You mentioned that key prices came down and had a positive impact. My question is really, did raw material price have a positive impact on your gross margin and if so, how much does that explain the 160 base point improvement we saw in your - the gross margin level? Howard Green - Unilever - Head of Investor Relations I couldn't possibly rate that out for you. I think that the -- that the whole area is one way. You got to look at the total -- the total impacts of all the actions that are going on. I mean, for example, we have got edible oil prices that are going up, we have got tea prices that are going down, we have got some mineral oil prices which are up although, up and down all over the place and they are influenced by what I would call currency effect. The commodities overall for total Unilever are slightly up from last year. It's not as much it was in quarter four. The - let me give you some other flavor for it and that is that if you are operating in, let us call a representative developing and emerging market region, where you are subject to the devaluation. So let me take the whole of Latin America and weight the currencies by GDP. Then in fact, you need some thing like a 15 percent price increase to get your margins restored. At the moment, we got about 12.5 percent increase in Latin America, equivalent and so, the commodity elements on it's own is only one part of the mix that we are actually trying to -- trying to manage. So, I am not trying to be unhelpful, but that's what's - that's what's in the numbers. We are trying to manage commodities, exchange rates, competitive issues on pricing and a 160 basis points that represents the structural improvement in our profitability and the additional flexibility in degrees of freedom that we have given ourselves. Arnold Langwa - JP Morgan OK. And last, why is the AMT he mentions that you had an increased rent in consumer price promotions. How did you reconsize it with the fact that you have seen relatively low volume growth in Europe, I mean that would have expected to see more volume growth based on actually the impact of - the positive impact of trade and consumer price promotion increase? 21 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us ©2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. APRIL 26, 2002 / 7:45AM, UNA.AS^K20 - Q1 2002 Unilever N.V. Earnings Conference Call for Europe Howard Green - Unilever - Head of Investor Relations Well, there is a number of number of issues - number of issues again. I mean if I run through some of the - I mean you asked, in particular, the personal care numbers in total. I know why you asked for those numbers. Let me just say that in the fragrance area, for example, there is a heavy innovation program last year. Fragrance sales happened to be down about 15 million euros in Europe in the first quarter against last year, but purely to do with phasing of innovation. If I look at the overall category, then, the changes in the distribution arrangements of which I mentioned to Andy Smith, earlier, actually give a comparative 10 million euros reduction on on sales. So they are just a large number of issues that are -- that are going on in anyone quarter, that impact the number. Let me give you perhaps a good illustration of what I mean. If you pay listing fee for the launch of a new product. Those listing fees we deduct from sales. That eliminates the intial volume growth number in the -- in the calculation. So, as innovation goes in to the market place, listing fees get recorded as above the line expenditure and we get a small number recorded as sales in our results as we report them. So, in the overall balance of the business as we move through quarter one, is why I say that we have remained comfortable with where we are in terms of the innovation plans, at the way that we are spending the money, the health of the brands and that we will sustain the growth of the leading brands in line with our outlook statements which the Chairman made in February with the full years results. Arnold Langwa - JP Morgan OK. Thank you very much. Howard Green - Unilever - Head of Investor Relations OK. Operator The next question will be from Mr Robert Yanbas of ING Bearing (ph) . Please ask your question at this time. Robert Yanbas - ING Bearing Yes, Hello, good morning. I have two related questions. You mentioned the six percent plus growth for leading brands in March. Can you - can you say whether this occured in particular region? You have already talked about categories but can you talk about regions or did it occur in all regions, is the first question. Howard Green - Unilever - Head of Investor Relations One of the - of the strongest areas of growth were in Europe and that was broad based in terms of category and geography. In Asia Pacific, particularly in India and South East what we call South East Asia, that came through particularly strongly and in fact in Asia Pacific, growth was in high single digits in the March month. We also saw a good growth in North America and again, that came in both the areas of ice cream and in our personal care businesses and also positive growth in laundry. Robert Yanbas - ING Bearing OK. Thank you. The second question related to that is, to what extent do you think this could be a pre-loading effect in March in anticipation of a possible price increases in second quarter? 22 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us ©2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. APRIL 26, 2002 / 7:45AM, UNA.AS^K20 - Q1 2002 Unilever N.V. Earnings Conference Call for Europe Howard Green - Unilever - Head of Investor Relations We do not load. We - there of courses action that is taken by the trade that might be in anticipation of price increases. There certainly are some price increases that are going on inEurope, but there is nothing that's that would be a distortion on the underlying, you know, the performance of the business. We would certainly not enter into practices which distroted those. Robert Yanbas - ING Bearing OK. Thank you. Howard Green - Unilever - Head of Investor Relations OK. Thank you. Operator This concludes the question and answer session. Once again, we will hand over to Mr. Green, for closing remarks. Howard Green - Unilever - Head of Investor Relations Let me say a few words in summary. We made a sound start to the year. Our operational plans are directing the improvement in profitability in key areas of our business such as laundry, tea and ice-cream. And there is a continued focus on extracting value from the tail of our business. In addition, we have taken pricing action in countries where they have been substantial devaluations. A continuing expansion in underlying operating margins reflect our determination to grow our business profitably. Operating margins moved ahead by 250 basis points in the quarter with the key driver being an improvement of a 160 basis points in gross margin. Margin gives us the space to step up planned investment for the remainder of the year and we have enforced our plan delivery of low double digit growth in EPSDIA for the year. Through the quarter, we have also seen an increase in sales momentum which is line with our target for the year of sustaining the growth of our leading brands. We are confident of delivering our innovation of market place activities for the year which support the stronger growth plan for the rest of the year. In foods, we have a step-up in market initiatives, while in home and personal care, we continue with the strong innovation program. Finally, as we extract barrier from the tale of our business, we forsee the leading brands approaching 90 percent of sales by the end of 2002, up from 84 percent today. That leaves me to say, thanks for your interest and for your questions. The IR team will of course be happy to take the course, should you have further questions. I think you know the number, thanks and good bye. Operator This conference has been recorded and will be available in one hour. Details of the replay number and access code can be down on Unilever's website. An audio archive copy of the teleconference will also be available in two hours on Unilever's website at www.unilever.com. 23 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us ©2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. APRIL 26, 2002 / 7:45AM, UNA.AS^K20 - Q1 2002 Unilever N.V. Earnings Conference Call for Europe DISCLAIMER Refinitiv reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes. In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized. THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES REFINITIV OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS. ©2020, Refinitiv. All Rights Reserved. 625306-2020-12-09T14:33:00 24 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us ©2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. APRIL 26, 2002 / 7:45AM, UNA.AS^K20 - Q1 2002 Unilever N.V. Earnings Conference Call for Europe
REFINITIV STREETEVENTS EDITED TRANSCRIPT UNA.AS^K20 - Q1 2002 Unilever N.V. Earnings Conference Call for the US EVENT DATE/TIME: APRIL 26, 2002 / 2:30PM GMT OVERVIEW: Overall company sales growth of 1.8% for Q was in line with expectations. Q+A Review: Geographies broken out further; initiatives described in greater detail; competition in various markets discussed. REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us ©2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS Howard Green Unilever - Senior Vice President of Investor Relations John McMillan (ph) Prudential Ann Gillon (ph) Lehmandlers CONFERENCE CALL PARTICIPANTS Neil Goldner (ph) State Street Global Advisors Florence Taj (ph) Massachusetts Financial Services PRESENTATION Operator Welcome to Unilever's first quarter 2002 results conference call. This conference will begin with a presentation by Mr. Howard Green, Senior Vice President, Investor Relations, followed by a question and answer session. At any time during the presentation, you may indicate your desire to ask a question by pressing one on your telephone touch pad. Should you wish to cancel your question, simply press the pound or hash button. This conference is being recorded and will be available up to and including May 10, 2002. Details of the replay numbers and access code can be found on Unilever's web site, and audio archive copy of the teleconference will also be available on Unilever's web site at www.unilever.com. We will shortly hand you over to Mr. Green. Howard Green - Unilever - Senior Vice President of Investor Relations Ladies and gentlemen, good morning and welcome to this presentation of Unilever's first quarter results. A transcript of this presentation can be accessed via our website. That transcript contains the usual formal disclaimer as to forward-looking statements within the meaning of relevant US legislation and this presentation and discussions are conducted subject to that disclaimer. I propose not to read that disclaimer, but that we take it as read into the record for the purpose of this presentation and conference call. So now let me turn to our results for the first quarter. I remind you that, unless otherwise stated, the financial numbers used in this presentation are in Euros at constant rates exchange, that is average 2001 rates. On chart one, you will see the key features of our results for the quarter. Firstly, underlying sales growth was in line with our expectations at 1.8 percent. In the leading brands, sales growth was 4.6 percent over the last twelve months with 3 percent in the quarter. We have seen good momentum through the quarter with underlying sales growth of the leading brands of over 6 percent in March. Secondly, our operation margins, before exceptional items and goodwill amortization, moved ahead strongly by 250 basis points to 14.9 percent in the quarter. This progress has been driven by substantial increase in gross margins, which are ahead by 160 basis points. Thirdly, net interest of 320 million Euros is 26 percent below last year reflecting the combination of lower rates and the benefits of strong cash flow from operations, good management of capital employed, and proceeds from our disposal program. As a result of the strong increase in operating profit and low interest, earnings per share the before exceptional items and goodwill amortization accounts a 37 percent in the quarter. Compared to pre-close, we saw stronger progress in gross margins. Expenditure on advertising promotions and associated costs was slightly low because activities rephased into quarter two. This rephasing contributed six percentage points to the EPSBEIA growth. The amounts of advertising and promotions involved was 30 million Euros, equivalent to less than 2 percent spend in the first quarter. Let me now put these results in the context of our operating plan (ph) in 2002. The value creation culture embedded in Unilever ensures our focus is on growth, which is profitable growth. The surest way of securing profitable growth is to work at getting the business fundamentals right. So let me illustrate what this has meant for us as we implement our path-to-growth (ph) strategy and how it has influenced our quarter 2 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us ©2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. APRIL 26, 2002 / 2:30PM, UNA.AS^K20 - Q1 2002 Unilever N.V. Earnings Conference Call for the US one results, the ninth quarter of our twenty quarter program. As we implement our strategy, different parts of our business will have different priorities at any particular moment. Those priorities are, however, all consistent with the building blocks of our strategy, and in combination, they will get us to our 2004 targets. Let me to turn to chart 2 and try and go behind the numbers to show you what I mean through a few examples. Firstly, our near 10 billion year annual turnover skin, hair, and deodorant mass market businesses grew by a little over 7 percent in the quarter and have grown by over 8 percent per annum over the last three years. With good growth and operating margins, we certainly have a good example of sustaining value creation (ph) . We had a good start for the year, and it is only the phasing of innovation that is slightly diluting our quarter one growth rate. Secondly, within our 6 billion Euro plus annual turnover spreads and cooking products business, our leading brands, which account for over 4 billion Euros of sales, grew by more than 3 percent in the quarter. The emphasis is on proving that we can sustain growth on the back of our proven track record of generating attractive margins. The second part of our strategy is about finding value enhancing strategies to exit from our oils business. The sale of refineries in Europe and Mazola are good examples of what we are doing. My third example is our near 7 billion Euros annual turnover laundry business, which saw flat growth in the quarter, but around a 350 basis points increase in operating margins. We have a regionally differentiated strategy, and thus in Europe, we have regained share compared to a few years ago and we have improved profitability by building on our market strengths and through innovations. Even in a very competitive market of quarter one of this year, we have seen 2 percent volume growth. In the US, our strategy is to be a profitable number two and with a tough comparator on sales growth in the previous year, we have given up some share, but significantly stepped up profitability whilst in the rest of the world, where we lead the market, the emphasis has been on improving profitability as we continue to move share forward. Incidentally, our total laundry business has grown on average 4 percent per annum over the last three years and grew in mid single digits in March month as the emphasis is on improving profitability, particularly in our rest of the world markets, turned back towards growth. I now turn to our near 10 billion Euros annual turnovers savory and dressings business, which includes olive oil. Our leading brands are 90 percent of this and we have seen underlying sales growth of around 1.5 percent. Here the emphasis has been on showing that we have created a firm foundation from the Best Foods integration, particularly with regard to brand understanding and sales growth integration on which to leverage a regular flow of innovation. We have secured that foundation and again we will see momentum through the quarter with underlying sales growth of approaching 3 percent in March. We have a strong innovation program scheduled through the rest of the year. It is here that we also have the world-class brands that provide the vehicles for accelerating the growth of our foods businesses in developing and emerging markets. These brands, plus our unparalleled reach and experience, represents an exciting growth and profit opportunity as we move forward with our plans. Now to tea-based beverages: a 2.5 billion Euros plus annual turnover business saw a small decline in sales. This is described as two very different phases in the implementation of our strategy. On the one hand, we saw a low double-digit growth in Lipton ready-to-drink tea in both Europe and North America, as we continue to expand the brand into the 350 billion Euros soft drink market. In North America, there has also been a particularly positive response to the March launch of our Lipton Brisk Lemonade. On the other hand in leaf tea, we see two facets of path-to-growth (ph) in action, which in this quarter produced an underlying sales decline of around 10 million Euros. Firstly, we continued to see strong growth in Central and Eastern Europe, particularly in Russia, as we extended reach of our leading brands. Secondly, however, this growth has been offset by deliberate reduction of unprofitable volume in our business in India, as we continue to focus on improving margins, which are ahead by some 320 basis points in the quarter in India. Lastly, ice cream and frozen foods. Businesses with annualized turnover of over 7.5 billion Euros, grew underlying sales by very close to 4 percent in the quarter and also moved operating margins ahead by 270 basis points. In many ways, these businesses showed the power of path-to-growth (ph) , cutting the tail brands, exiting from certain countries, or finding different business models, a rapid implementation of restructuring initiatives and a focus on innovation have all contributed to rejuvenation of businesses where we have strong market positions. Again, we have to sustain this performance, but the building blocks are in place to do just that. I hope these three examples give you a flavor of the different aspects of path-to-growth (ph) as it gets implemented in our businesses around the world. Let me turn to the overall sales growth for the quarter by focussing on the common themes within these strategies and their implications for our first quarter growth rate. These are shown on chart three. Within the 3 percent leading brands growth for the quarter, foods grew 2.6 percent and 3 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us ©2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. APRIL 26, 2002 / 2:30PM, UNA.AS^K20 - Q1 2002 Unilever N.V. Earnings Conference Call for the US home and personal care grew 3.5 percent. In March month, we saw leading brands growth of over 6 percent with both foods and home and personal care contributing strongly. In food, the majority of the growth came from volume (ph) , whereas in home and personal care there was a higher proportion of price. The greater contribution coming from price in home and personal care reflects the higher proportion of business in developing and emerging markets, which have experienced devaluations. This takes us to our first common theme. In a number of developing and emerging markets, we're in the process of restoring margins, which have been affected by the valuation led cost increases. That is normal at this stage of the cycle. Underlying sales growth slows. This happens because pricing action is offset by an increase in the rate of underlying volume declines as consumer markets shrink. Our focus is on maintaining the strength of our market position and coming out of the crisis stronger than when we went in. We know from experience that this trend starts to reverse itself, and we would expect to see this as we move through 2002. We also now are for the long-term health of the business. In 2001, developing and emerging market sales were 34 percent of sales, up from 20 percent in 1991, and the growth rate before acquisitions in current Euros is around 9 percent per annum. Operating profit has increased slightly above this rate. Our second common theme is that we have very different phasing of innovation this year compared with last year, particularly in Asia Pacific and North America. In 2001, as we said at the time, we're just over a third of our big innovation in the market in the first quarter. Just to remind you this included innovation in spreads and cooking products, the launch of Enjoy (ph) in the UK, the launch of the ready-to-drink tea partnership with Sum Toi (ph) in Japan, the launch of laundry tablets and innovation in Surf liquid in the United States, the launch of easy-to-use wipes on the Lever 2000 and Dove brands in the United States and the launch of Sun Silk (ph) branded as Cidal (ph) in Mexico. The different phasing of innovation is simply that - phasing. Not a lack of initiatives, but is not that last year's initiatives have run out of steam. Any number of factors have to be taken into account in the practical reality of an operating plan when it comes to the timing of innovation. This year, our program of market initiatives is more back-end loaded, but it is also at least as intensive as last year with a sustained rate in home and personal care and a step-up in foods. The impact of margin recovery and innovation phasing and the growth of the leading brands is well in excess of 150 basis points. In the balance of the business, we have a faster rate of attrition in the non-leading brands with a decline of around 4.3 percent in the quarter compared with a growth of 80 basis points in the first quarter of last year. We have always said that the harvesting of value from the non-leading brand part of our business could (ph) vary quarter by quarter, but the most important issue for us is to make sure we extract the value and it is not to worry about consistency of sales delivery. I think we have shown that we are in control of this process and our margin progress and the momentum in our restructuring programs provide the supporting evidence. attrition has impacted underlying sales growth by some 80 basis points. In respect of managing the of our business, we also see that the effects of disposals is to reduce sales growth by 300 basis points to give the sales of 12.3 billion Euros, a decline of 1.3 percent on the prior year. Let me wrap up this section on sales by reconfirming that we remain confident with where we are in terms of the business cycle and those markets which have suffered economic dislocation. Our innovation plans for 2002 are on track and we continue to manage the tail of our business to maximize value. We also remain confident of achieving our objectives of sustaining the growth of our leading brands and that these brands will represent approaching 90 percent of total sales by the end of 2002. Let me now turn to how we can continue to drive forward our operating margin. This is shown on chart four. The basis point are all expressed as an effect on total Unilever operating margin. Gross margins moved ahead by 160 basis points in the quarter. The key drivers of the improvements in gross margins have been, firstly, continued benefits for our procurements and supply chain restructuring programs, which contributed some 160 basis points of gross margins. Secondly, improved mix contributed some 60 basis points to disposals in a larger proportion of higher margin categories. Thirdly, good progress with recovery of valuation led cost increases through pricing action. There's still a shortfall between cost increases and price of around 60 basis points. This is, however, a substantial improvement on the 130 basis points we saw in quarter four of last year. We increased investment behind our brands in the quarter, notwithstanding the relatively high rate of spend in the first quarter of last year. While advertising and promotion was up (ph) , essentially the sales were 50 basis points low last year, it was more than offset by higher investment in trade and consumer price promotions, which we call above the line expenditure, of 150 million Euros. You will remember that we deduct the above the line expenditure in order to arrive at reported sales. Continued savings from both lower media rates and media efficiency measures are also estimated to be worth some 50 basis points of sales in the quarter. In advertising and promotion, we saw step-up during the quarter as we introduced innovations for the markets. 4 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us ©2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. APRIL 26, 2002 / 2:30PM, UNA.AS^K20 - Q1 2002 Unilever N.V. Earnings Conference Call for the US In the March month, advertising and promotions as a percentage of sales was 30 basis points ahead of last year, lower associated costs at 20 basis points of the operating margin progression with an additional benefit of 20 basis points from lower overheads. Let me turn to chart five to highlight the other key financial indicators for the first quarter. Operating profit before exceptional items and goodwill amortization rises by 282 million Euros or 18 percent. EBITDA before exceptional items, which is in current money, is 2.1 billion Euros in the quarter. Exceptional items for the quarter were 197 million Euros, which includes 222 million Euros of restructuring and 25 million Euros profit on disposals. Associated costs included in the operating profit DEIA (ph) were 40 million Euros in the quarter. Interest payable is 320 million Euros, 26 percent lower than last year, with approximately half of the reduction coming from a lower debt level through cash flow from operations and disposals and a balance from lower rates. Cash flow from operating activities was 1.1 billion Euros in the quarter and if we look at it on the moving annual total basis it has gone from 5.6 billion Euros in quarter four of 1999 to 7.6 billion Euros in this quarter. Net debt at quarter end at current rate of exchange was 23 billion Euros, compared to 27.8 billion Euros a year ago. Net is 72 percent. Profit before tax at 962 million Euros is 62 percent above last year, reflecting the improved operating margin and the low interest charge. The effective tax rate for the quarter was 44.9 percent, reflecting the non-tax deductibility of Best Foods goodwill amortization. The underlying tax rate for normal trading operations, and excluding the goodwill effects, is 33.9 percent. Now let me turn to chart six, which shows how our reporting currencies have developed in the quarter and shows the impact of EPS on current exchange rates. When expressed in current rates of exchange, EPS before exceptional items and goodwill amortization grew about 33 percent in the quarter. In the quarter, we saw a strengthening of the pound sterling against the Euro by 2.8 percent and of the US dollar against the Euro by 4.8 percent compared with a year ago. The current exchange rate results ought to reflect a 50 percent deviation of the Argentinian peso. Chart six shows the current exchange rate, EPS, and the EPSBEIA a percentage change of Euro, pounds sterling, and US dollar. I will now review the and performance by region, beginning with Europe on chart seven. Sales growth was broad-based across categories and includes a continuing spend (ph) contribution in Central and Eastern Europe. Underlying sales growth was 2.4 percent with 100 basis points from price. Key highlights in the development of our business have been in Western Europe. Underlying sales growth of 5.2 percent in branded spreads and cooking products driven by the sustained progress of our innovations. Good growth in savory and dressings of 3.6 percent fueled by continued spend (ph) growth in Amore (ph) , growth of over 4 percent in Knorr, and a strong contribution from Hellman's in the United Kingdom. In our home and personal care mass consumer businesses, underlying sales were ahead by a little over 4 percent. We have seen good growth in skin, hair, and deodorants, the key drivers being Dove, Rexona (ph) and Ax (ph) . Dove shampoo and conditioner is now available in ten markets and the initial purchase patent is encouraging. In laundry, volume growth has been only partially offset by competitive pricing environments. In Central and Eastern Europe, we have seen growth in low double digits driven by a particularly strong growth in Russia in tea, savory and dressings, skin and hair, and in savory and dressings and household care across the rest of the regions. Operating margins are 190 basis points ahead of last year, reflecting the benefits of supply chain restructuring and Best Foods synergy. I now turn to North America on chart eight. Sales were 3.5 percent lower through the effects of disposals. Flat underlying sales reflect a tougher comparator through later phasing of innovation this year. The impact on turnover increased promotional investment in foods and the one-off effect on trade stocks of K-Mart store closures. In foods, underlying sales grew 2 percent with good volume growth partly offset by negative pricing impacts of 30 basis points. Slim Fast and ice cream continued to grow very strongly and our leading spreads brands also performed well. Ragout Express continues to make progress and Lipton Brisk Lemonade was launched successfully in March. However, overall sales growth was held back by the impact from turnover of trade investments behind a Wishbone product launch, the migration of Five Brothers to Bertolli, and promotions behind the Hellman's brand in response to contested pricing. Harvesting of toll (ph) brands reduced the underlying sales growth in foods by 140 basis points. We have gained market share in spreads, including Skippy, inscrutables (ph) with Hellman's, and in Wishbone salad dressings. Shares in pasta sauce and side dishes are marginally down of competitive initiatives relative to our own innovation plans. We have an active program to counter this going forward. In home and personal care, underlying sales declined 2.5 percent with good growth in skin being offset by a number of factors. Firstly, our innovation program is phased for later in the year, while our first quarter of last year benefitted strongly from launches under the Dove, Suave, Caress, and Wisk (ph) bands. The effect is some 300 basis points to sales growth. Secondly, in laundry we're focusing on improving profitability and margins have moved ahead strongly. Some loss of share means the overall sales boat (ph) was pulled down by some 130 basis points. Innovations in laundry are back-end loaded in 2002 compared to 2001. Finally, K-Mart's program of store closures produced a one-off reduction in trade stocks with an effect of some 150 basis points on home and personal care underlying sales growth. Operating margins increased strongly by 390 basis points for 15 percent, driven by supply chain savings 5 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us ©2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. APRIL 26, 2002 / 2:30PM, UNA.AS^K20 - Q1 2002 Unilever N.V. Earnings Conference Call for the US and (ph) Best Foods synergy. Margins were also boosted by lower advertising and promotion as a result of the different phasing of innovation and lower media rates. Lower media rates contribute 40 basis points of this. I know turn to Africa, Middle East, and Turkey on chart nine. Underlying sales growth of 5 percent is driven by price increases, in particular to restore margins in a number of countries where there has been devaluation. This has enabled us to protect operating margin at 9 percent, notwithstanding tough economic conditions. South Africa performed strongly with good holding (ph) growth across dressings, spreads, tea, and personal care. Sun Silk (ph) was successfully launched on our experience from Latin America. In Turkey, we continued to see consumer down-trading and declining markets, reflecting a difficult economy. Whilst market shares in key categories were at least maintained, we have seen underlying sales decline by 10 percent. However, we have also significantly improved profitability. Good sales growth in Egypt and Arabia was offset by difficult trading conditions in much of West and sub-Saharan Africa. I now turn to Asia Pacific on chart ten. Underlying sales growth in Asia Pacific moved ahead by 40 basis points with a rapid acceleration through the quarter. In Southeast Asia, we continue to see strong growth in Indonesia across foods, home care, and personal care. However, this was partly offset by both the Philippines and Thailand due to tough comparators in the previous year from phasing of innovations. In Japan, we continue to see high single digit growth in home and personal care, driven by Dove, following the launch of shampoo last year and also Pond's. However, in foods we see a decline in sales against a strong quarter in the previous year. This included the initial sales associated with the launch of our ready-to-drink tea alliance with Santori (ph) . In India, underlying sales in the quarter declined 5 percent.This reflects the stocking of the trade as we introduced continuous replenishment to our distributors, the impact of the budget where duties have been reduced from skin and hair products, and we have given rebates to the trades (ph) and duties already paid, and the continued impact on sales and foods as we focus on improvement in profitability. Our innovation plans are also phased (ph) late in the year as we get our housekeeping out of the way. Taken together, sales reduced by 35 million Euros, which is the equivalent of nearly 200 basis points on the growth rate of the Asia Pacific region. However, these initiatives also have important benefits for our business going forward, as we have structurally improved our capital efficiency, strengthened our margin structure, and thus far further enhanced our competitiveness. In the second quarter, we expect to see good top-line growth in the region as we build on the innovations launched in March. Launched (ph) further innovations in the quarter in all markets across the region and see a pickup in demand in India as the benefit of lower prices in skin and hair feed (ph) through to consumers. Operating margins of 300 basis points ahead with a startup improvement of results in both China and India and 60 basis points and lower advertising and promotions, reflecting phasing of innovation and media efficiencies in almost equal proportion. I now turn to Latin America on chart eleven. Sales grew by 1.3 percent with underlying sales ahead by 3.5 percent. Pricing is still the main driver as we recovery devaluation -led cost increases. Harvesting of the tail reduced underlying sales growth by 220 basis points. Mexico continues to show very good growth, particularly in personal care through Cidal (ph) , which has now reached a share of almost 10 percent. and Dove and a savory following the successful launch of last year. We also see good growth in Andina (ph) , led by the launch of Cidal (ph) . From Brazil, underlying sales moved ahead strongly. Deodorants, through Rexona (ph) and Ax (ph) , and hair through Cidal (ph) , both grew at more than 20 percent. Spreads also performed well from Voliana (ph) and Baycell (ph) , including Baycell Proactive (ph) . volume internal (ph) businesses has been shed as we've managed them for value. The current situation in Argentina has severely reduced consumer demands and volumes have been affected as a result. However, our management has deep local experience and are taking the appropriate actions to preserve the long-term value of the business. Market shares are firm in declining markets. Our laundry market shares in Brazil, Argentina, and Chile remain firm. Operating margins increased by 200 basis points through benefits and savings programs, pricing action to recover devaluation-driven cost increases. That completes my review of the regions and I will now be happy to take your questions. QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS Operator Thank you, Mr. Green. We will now poll for questions from analysts. If you have a question, please press the number one on your telephone. If you're listening to the conference call on a speakerphone, please use the handset while asking your question. Should you wish to cancel your question, 6 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us ©2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. APRIL 26, 2002 / 2:30PM, UNA.AS^K20 - Q1 2002 Unilever N.V. Earnings Conference Call for the US simply press the pound or hash button. Our first question will be from Mr. John McMillan (ph) of Prudential. Please ask your question at this time, sir. John McMillan - Prudential Hi Howard. Howard Green - Unilever - Senior Vice President of Investor Relations Hi, John. John McMillan - Prudential Your marketing initiatives are more back-end loaded and I guess I've heard that about six or seven times over the last week from other companies that delivered first quarter sales or March quarter sales or the like (ph) , whether it's, you know, domestic companies like Kraft and Hershey or Unilever, Nestle, DeNone (ph) . I mean, everyone seems to be a little bit light. Now, I understand your Latin American issues, which are somewhat unique and certainly would explain some of the shortfalls short-term and clearly have to get better from this juncture. But, I guess to the extent everyone's marketing initiatives are more back-end loaded, conceptually shouldn't that cause competition to increase? Howard Green - Unilever - Senior Vice President of Investor Relations Well, let me just try and, you know, sort of paint a picture of... John McMillan - Prudential How you see it? Howard Green - Unilever - Senior Vice President of Investor Relations No, of one of the specific reasons for us actually developing a plan that had this skew in it. Two of the most important reasons for the skew in the plan was that we wanted to make sure that before we launched initiatives in our foods businesses that we had actually got a stable base through the integration of Best Foods. There would be nothing worse for brand equities than trying to push through innovation into the marketplace onto sales forces that might, at the time we were doing the plans, have been at the stage of still going through that integration process. We've made good progress with that integration. We, in fact, ran slightly ahead of it and in terms of the providing that robust pace (ph) . I mean, March you already started to see the pickup in the performance of the business and we have a very energetic program going forward. Now, in terms of how that interfaces in the competitive space, we believe that we have also done the research and the homework that shows that those innovations are relevant to consumers and are appealing to consumers in the competitive environment. To me it sounds like all good news for consumers and we are confident about those innovations getting away and achieving our plans. The second key thing that I would pick out is that whereas Latin America is one specific area for us in terms of the economic environment, there are a number of other markets where we have been going through either devaluation type issues or where we have been deliberately taking structural changes in the approach to the business to improve the robustness on which we actually build going forward. In the devaluation type countries, or where we've been putting price increases through, then we also know from experience that to try and launch innovation at time that you're trying to get pricing in, is actually a tricky task and a lot of time of the sales force is actually spent in just making sure that we make the list prices stick and we are able to do that by making sure that, you know, it might involve some dealing back, some price increases, just to make sure that pricing does stick. 7 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us ©2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. APRIL 26, 2002 / 2:30PM, UNA.AS^K20 - Q1 2002 Unilever N.V. Earnings Conference Call for the US The other type of example within the general economy that I would point to you is the example of India that I gave in the speech, which has not been subject to a devaluation, but where we've actually taken quite clear actions to structurally improve some aspects of the business. We've accepted that there'd be a 5 percent sales decline in that market so that we actually get the infrastructure so that we actually improve capital efficiency. It was also very important to us that we actually made sure that overall for Unilever our margin structures were where we wanted them. The margin structures, in fact, have moved ahead better than we had anticipated and therefore we actually think that we've created some headroom for ourselves as we move into the second quarter and through the rest of the year to really get behind our launches. So, it's a somewhat long answer. John McMillan - Prudential But, you don't see increased category competition on the horizon? Howard Green - Unilever - Senior Vice President of Investor Relations I think a lot of what we've actually seen, John, over a number of years is people increasingly focussing on their niches and their areas within categories. Yes, there will be competition, but we believe competition is good and that competition actually drives more efficient businesses and the more powerful your brands, which is the focus of path-to-growth (ph) , will be competition influenced for the more powerful brands and it's the brands five through seven are the ones that will feel the squeeze. John McMillan - Prudential And, General Mills will tell you that integration isn't all that easy, so you certainly had to go through some issues yourself. Can I just kind of focus a little bit just on North America, you know, where sales trends were, you know, flat. Howard Green - Unilever - Senior Vice President of Investor Relations You mean by the changing of the packaging size? John McMillan - Prudential Well, the tricky (ph) price increase, I guess. Is that what . Howard Green - Unilever - Senior Vice President of Investor Relations Yeah, no, we haven't. John McMillan - Prudential Do you plan to or you don't want to get into that? Howard Green - Unilever - Senior Vice President of Investor Relations I wouldn't get into that just to say that our ice cream business grew 15 percent in the first quarter, John. 8 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us ©2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. APRIL 26, 2002 / 2:30PM, UNA.AS^K20 - Q1 2002 Unilever N.V. Earnings Conference Call for the US John McMillan - Prudential Well, it was pretty warm over here. Howard Green - Unilever - Senior Vice President of Investor Relations Yeah, I heard that you had 90º or something. We've had a good start to summer over here, as well. John McMillan - Prudential And, just the other food businesses. I'm trying to build models going back, but I thought I had somewhat used your comparisons. Maybe I was kind of hoping for more than two, but in terms of, I guess the warm weather also hurts your tea business or your - so there are some issues that benefit and hurt you. But, just in terms of little more color to the overall food business. Is that basically what you're targeting in North America? Howard Green - Unilever - Senior Vice President of Investor Relations Again, just for the sake of clarity, we did have a light program of marketplace activities in the first quarter because we really wanted to make sure that we actually had that sound foundation going forward. In terms of the individual market areas, our spread brands did perform well and that includes Skippy and we actually gained market share, both in spreads and the category. We responded to some fairly aggressive pricing activity in the spoonables area. The volume of business actually stayed well, but we actually saw price promotions of around about 8 percent quarter-on-quarter, which obviously impacts the top line. But in overall share terms, Hellman's has put on a full share point, despite that aggressive competitor activity. Equally, Wishbone, both in the business and in the new initiatives that we've got in the liquid dressings area, new products and also part of a health promotion, we've seen some share gain there. The pasta sauces, that is where there's been a different timing of innovation. Competitors have got innovation in the marketplace. Ours are phased later. We have certainly given some share up in pasta sauces, 50 or 60 basis points. However, in what I would call the special , almost type area, Ragout Express, we've actually gotten very, very strong there - strong growth. The other area that I should comment on is in tea where we've been changing over delivery of Lipton Brisk to the international yellow flagship color. We have seen some fall in sales there just as we actually adjust trade inventories and make sure that we've got the yellow color out along with our painting the walls yellow. So, our foods business overall is looking pretty healthy as we go into quarter two and also given the phasing of innovations as we move forward. Innovations already announced for quarter two in the US, for example, Hellman's flavored mayonnaise, Lipton Asian side dishes. Across this side of the pond, just to , we've also got , which I'm told is the UK's biggest initiative ever under the hot noodles brand (ph) . John McMillan - Prudential I think you guys have all the fun. Howard Green - Unilever - Senior Vice President of Investor Relations So, I mean we're actually excited about the program as we forward. Yes, sure, we've got to make it work, but we've got the innovations. We've got the, importantly, the increased investments to go behind those brands and we think that we will, as planned, see an uptick in growth as we move through the year. John McMillan - Prudential Thanks for all of that, Howard. 9 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us ©2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. APRIL 26, 2002 / 2:30PM, UNA.AS^K20 - Q1 2002 Unilever N.V. Earnings Conference Call for the US Howard Green - Unilever - Senior Vice President of Investor Relations OK, John. Thanks. Operator The next question will be from Mr. Neil Goldner (ph) of State Street Global Advisors. Please ask your question at this time, sir. Neil Goldner - State Street Global Advisors Hi Howard. I've got a question about your A & P spending, a two-part question, I guess. First thing is, on the tail brands, is there any A & P being spent on the tail brands at all? And, if so, as you harvest the tail brands, what happens to that A & P spending? the bottom line, or is it reallocated to the leading brands? Howard Green - Unilever - Senior Vice President of Investor Relations Ninety-six percent of A & P is going behind the leading brands, so there's 4 percent of A & P going behind the tail brands. Of course, they're still what we would call just above the line expenditure that enables us to actually maintain distribution, to maintain price relatives (ph) on shelves as we extract the value from the tail brands. The assumption in path-to-growth (ph) was that as we got out to the tail, the A & P that was behind the tail would indeed be shifted across behind the leading brands and that is part of the movement of why we actually see 96 percent of it being behind those leading brands. Neil Goldner - State Street Global Advisors I just want to make sure - the 96 percent of the A & P was... Howard Green - Unilever - Senior Vice President of Investor Relations Yes, behind the leading brands. Neil Goldner - State Street Global Advisors OK, now is that just the A & P that goes through SG & A, I guess, or are you including... Howard Green - Unilever - Senior Vice President of Investor Relations Yes, that is just the A & P that goes into what you guys would call SG & A. Neil Goldner - State Street Global Advisors OK. So, the part that's being netted against the sales that we don't see as a separate line item, I guess the same question with that, as you harvest that business, eventually you're going to decide it's nothing worth harvesting anymore, the commercial spending going behind those brands, those also are expected to be shifted to the leading brands? 10 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us ©2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. APRIL 26, 2002 / 2:30PM, UNA.AS^K20 - Q1 2002 Unilever N.V. Earnings Conference Call for the US Howard Green - Unilever - Senior Vice President of Investor Relations Well, I think the most - we would certainly make a judgment as to what is the appropriate level of so-called above the line expenditure that is needed to get the growth that we want. If that meant putting above the line money behind the leading brands, then that would be an operational decision that is made. In terms of the overall shape of path-to-growth (ph) , we were actually looking to increase the proportion of A within A & P because we expect to have more powerful innovation for that innovation to be focussed behind fewer and more powerful brands and for us to be building brand equity through that. I think in terms of the overall direction, that is the message that I'd like to leave you with. Neil Goldner - State Street Global Advisors Great. If I can just ask - two quick questions. Just (a) are the price increases in there as well? Are they sticking? And then the second question, of the 3 percent leading brands growth, how much of that came from acquisitions in the last twelve months? Howard Green - Unilever - Senior Vice President of Investor Relations OK. In terms of the leading brand growth, there is no acquisition effect in there any more. We've anniversaried the acquisition of Best Foods, therefore that's an organic leading brand growth number. Neil Goldner - State Street Global Advisors OK, so Slim Fast and Ben and Jerry's just aren't big enough to matter? Howard Green - Unilever - Senior Vice President of Investor Relations They're all big enough to matter. I think the issue is more of the one to do with phasing of innovation, the effects of the devaluation, driven effect on underlying sales growth. Those are a lot bigger issues in the total rate (ph) of Unilever, so Slim Fast and Ben and Jerry have performed extremely well. But, the others just happen to outweigh and I wouldn't want to take anything away from either of those businesses, which have continued their strong progress within the Unilever portfolio. In terms of the Brazilian price issue, then, yes. We've - our pricing is sticking and we are seeing the benefits of that in improved operating margins. Neil Goldner - State Street Global Advisors Great. Thank you. Howard Green - Unilever - Senior Vice President of Investor Relations Thanks, Neil (ph) . Operator Our next question will be from Ms. Ann (ph) Gillon (ph) of Lehmandlers (ph) . Please ask your question at this time, ma'am. Ann Gillon - Lehmandlers Hello, Howard. 11 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us ©2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. APRIL 26, 2002 / 2:30PM, UNA.AS^K20 - Q1 2002 Unilever N.V. Earnings Conference Call for the US Howard Green - Unilever - Senior Vice President of Investor Relations Hi, Ann. Ann Gillon - Lehmandlers Just a question. If you could update us on Unilever's efforts to accelerate its new product launches across geographies in not so much the work of the innovation (ph) centers to develop the products, but more the ability to transfer from manufacturing sites across geographies. Howard Green - Unilever - Senior Vice President of Investor Relations Yeah, I mean, let me give two different examples. Let me take Slim Fast as a first example. We've started redeveloping the European market based on US-sourced production and we have then entered into a co-packing arrangement, as we would call it, a third-party manufacturing arrangement. The market positions got established and that is the way that we have moved with speed to grow the Slim Fast proposition in European markets. I think the other example I would give is in the personal care area where there (ph) is a to the innovation center network. It's easier to leverage innovation globally because at the global category board (ph) the ownership is established and the basic rules of harmonization that are essential for speed of and speed of layout (ph) are determined by that category board. So, something like Dove shampoo, for example, which was trialed (ph) out in Asia Pacific, we'd move rapidly into ten countries, as I said in the speech. And another example is the way that we actually moved our Sun Silk (ph) experience into the Mexican market by being able to work within geography so that to grab 10 percent share there and then across regions into South Africa where we actually launched there for black or colored hair. Those are sort of two or three examples of where grand focus, the focus on harmonization, actually allows you to properly leverage your scale. Ann Gillon - Lehmandlers OK, with Slim Fast you gave the example of being able to co-pack locally. Can you comment on whether or not you're able to move manufacturing as quickly to take advantage of local cost structures or whether part of your speed to broad geography rollout has meant that you're shipping more from the place the innovation was first launched. Howard Green - Unilever - Senior Vice President of Investor Relations No. I mean, for example, we've got a very active what we would call sourcing center based in India, which takes some of the more complex issues, perhaps some of the smaller things that you actually want to start out in small market tests, and is able to actually develop markets in that way. I mean, of the business we tend not to be particularly capital intensive. Our fixed assets or the percentage of sales are now down to around about 20 percent of sales. The intensive things tend to be things like laundry detergent blowing towers and things like that where there's certainly some more work to be done in overall sourcing arrangements and that's part of what's responsible for the improvement in the laundry margins that I talked about - about more regional approaches to sourcing. In some areas, such as deodorants, sourcing opportunities where we're just going to take it from one center because the value equation works that you use a sourcing center in country "A" to supply the world. Ann Gillon - Lehmandlers OK, thanks. That was helpful. And, then, separately - in your comments about the US you talked about innovations in laundry being back-end loaded this year. Can you share anything that already may have been announced, or are you still in the pre-announcement stage for these innovations? 12 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us ©2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. APRIL 26, 2002 / 2:30PM, UNA.AS^K20 - Q1 2002 Unilever N.V. Earnings Conference Call for the US Howard Green - Unilever - Senior Vice President of Investor Relations We're very much in the pre-announcement stage and I think my old colleague Charlie (ph) Strauss (ph) would take me out and shoot me if he heard me say anything. Unidentified Well, we wouldn't want that, would be Howard? Howard Green - Unilever - Senior Vice President of Investor Relations Well, certainly not. Nor (ph) my family would want that. Ann Gillon - Lehmandlers Thanks much. Operator The next question will be from Ms. Florence Taj (ph) of Massachusetts Financial Services. Please ask your question at this time, ma'am. Florence Taj - Massachusetts Financial Services Hi, Howard. It's Florence Taj (ph) . I have some questions on the restructuring program. I was wondering if you could give the details of the savings you achieved this quarter and break it down between procurement, path-to-growth (ph) and the Best Foods . And, secondly, I have a follow-up question on North America. I was wondering if you could talk a little bit about the performance of the Best Foods brands. I know last year the performance there was a little bit disappointing. What are the trends like this year in the old Best Foods business? Are you seeing an acceleration? Howard Green - Unilever - Senior Vice President of Investor Relations OK. If I start with the restructuring and the savings. path-to-growth (ph) restructuring savings achieved in the quarter where 85 million Euros. Procurement savings were a little over 140 million Euros and the Best Foods synergy, as we call it, was just a little over 70 million Euros. Florence Taj - Massachusetts Financial Services OK. Howard Green - Unilever - Senior Vice President of Investor Relations The additional number of factories that we closed in the quarter is two, so all together now we have closed sixty-one factories and the head count reduction in the quarter was a little over 2,000 and for the total program so far we have got a head count reduction of a little over 25,000 people. If I turn to the Best Foods question, let's say just remember that in 2001 we focussed on integration of the business and sharing (ph) . We had a good understanding of the brands and have integrated (ph) the sales forces to provide the platform for growth driven by the innovation. 13 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us ©2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. APRIL 26, 2002 / 2:30PM, UNA.AS^K20 - Q1 2002 Unilever N.V. Earnings Conference Call for the US As we actually look into the actual progress within the various markets, in North America, as I've just said to John McMillan (ph) , that Hellman's spoonables, whilst it did look good in underlying sales growth terms because of the price competition in the market, we've actually gained a share point for spoonables. In Skippy, we've also seen good growth and share rose by, again, over a share point. And , which is a relatively smaller brand in the US, the shares are stable. In Europe, we have gains a tick up in shares. Sometimes I don't believe that people can actually measure it to within 10 basis points, but that's what the market share basis says. We are flat in hot sauces and we're mildly down in wet and dry soups, which again is a relatively small part of our business, the wet soups. The dry soups is obviously a bit larger. But, again that's 20 or 30 basis points down. In the dressings category, we've actually gained share gain up by 20 or 30 basis points. In Latin America, in we've grown shares strongly in Mexico and in Brazil and what we call River Plate, which is Argentina and Uruguay, our shares remain exceptionally strong at around 60 percent in Brazil and over 80 percent in River Plate. Equally in mayonnaise, we're still very strong in Brazil with a share of 80 percent and over 70 percent again in River Plate. We've also gained share in Mexico. The plan - I should also mention food service. I shouldn't let our food service slip by. The progress in food service is - I'll break it down by geography. We've seen strong growth in developing an emerging markets. The only spot which is significantly down, in fact, from last year is Argentina and I'm sure you can understand that. And we've maintained that momentum in and D & E (ph) markets like China, Indonesia, Mexico. And in our Asia, I don't like particularly doing this, but let me exclude Argentina. If I go across Asia, Latin America, Africa, Middle East, and Turkey, food service showed high single-digit growth in food service. In Europe, we saw strong growth in many countries where we have fully completed the integration. So double-digit growth in Italy, the Netherlands, and all of the Nordic countries, in Portugal. However, where we have not yet finished the integration, which is in the UK and France, we continue to see a flat sales performance. There is a particular issue to do with the German market where there seems to have been some issues with - it's actually with our customers that tried to take some advantage of the change over of the Euro at the beginning of the year - particularly in what we'd call the hotel and restaurant area and that's had a knock (ph) on consumer demand, but I think that, from what I read, that's common to any food service providers in that market. In the US, again, it's a story of two halves, as we would say in a football game. Our sort of what I would call the branded side of the business has grown quite strongly, whereas our food solution section, so-called IFX (ph) , that business, as I've said before, has remained weak because of one particular issue or an issue at one particular customer. There's a number of innovations in food service that we've got going forward. You might have seen the soup bar (ph) concept. That will be rolled out in geography outside of its home base. We've got initiatives with Knorr frozen foods. There's a particular initiative in Austria; we're seeing how that goes. You might have seen Lipton Fresh Brew (ph) iced tea in food service outlets in the US. There's what we call Mexi-casa (ph) in Canada and a variety of sources and other initiatives in Thailand. So, Best Foods' plans are really all coming together and it's being programmed as we move forward through the rest of the year, but I think we'll start to see the kind of growth levels that we would expect from that kind of brand portfolio. Florence Taj - Massachusetts Financial Services OK. I have one further question on laundry . It seems that your seeing weakness in both US and North America. Can you elaborate a little bit on the competitive activity and who is being most aggressive, least aggressive, and whether you intend to follow? Howard Green - Unilever - Senior Vice President of Investor Relations Competitors who are being aggressive. I'm not going to name any of them. I don't think that does us any good. I think, again, there are two very different types of involvement. In North America, our ambition is to be a profitable number two and to make sure that we get the right balance between the growth part of the profit part of the equation. And over a second half of the year and this first quarter of this year, our American management in the home and personal care business have done an excellent job of raising profitability. That does mean that they have given up (ph) around about 40 basis points of market share. But by creating the profits, which, just so you understand, is well into low double-digits, they're also creating their own headroom for the innovations that they have got scheduled for later in the year. But, our objective is very, very clearly to be a profitable number two to make sure that we get that balance right. 14 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us ©2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. APRIL 26, 2002 / 2:30PM, UNA.AS^K20 - Q1 2002 Unilever N.V. Earnings Conference Call for the US In Europe, again, the market - I think it's - I'd best describe it as, it's as competitive as it's always been. This is a very competitive market that we operate in. There's nothing different about it now compared to periods that I can remember in the past and, you know, there's just a lot of to-ing and fro-ing in terms of the balance. The competitors are making a strong run in France at the moment. There's quite a lot of price competition in the UK market. However, our position actually remains very strong in that market. So, if I look across the whole of Europe, then again we see an increase in profitability and 2 percent volume growth in a market that is only growing at that sort of rate, but some negative pricing. Negative pricing, I would guess, of around about 100 basis points. So, again, nothing material in overall share terms and the market just continues to be as competitive as it ever has been. Florence Taj - Massachusetts Financial Services OK. Thank you so much. Howard Green - Unilever - Senior Vice President of Investor Relations Thanks, Florence. Operator The next question will be from Mr. Andrew Wood of Sanford Bernstein (ph) . Please ask your question at this time, sir. This concludes the question and answer session. Once again, we will hand over to Mr. Green for closing remarks. Howard Green - Unilever - Senior Vice President of Investor Relations Let me say a few words in summary. We have made a sound start for the year. Our operational plans are addressing the improvement in profitability in key parts of our business, such as laundry, tea, and ice cream, and there's a continued focus on extracting value from the tail of our business. In addition, we are taking pricing action in countries where there has been substantial devaluations. A continuing expansion in underlying operating margin affect our determination to grow our business profitably. Operating margins moved ahead by 250 basis points in the quarter with a key driver being an improvement of 160 basis points in gross margins. Margin gives us the space to step-up planned investment for the remainder of the year and reinforce our planned delivery of low double-digit growth and EPSBEIA for the year. Through the quarter, we've also seen an increase in sales momentum, which is in line with our target for the year of sustaining the growth of our leading brands. We are confident that delivering our innovation and marketplace activities for the year which support the strong (ph) growth plan for the rest of the year. In foods we have a step-up in market initiatives, while in home and personal care we continue with a strong innovation program. Finally, as we extract value from the tail of our business, we the leading brands approaching 90 percent of sales by the end of 2002, up from 84 percent today. That leaves me to say thanks for your interest and questions. The IR team will, of course, be happy to take your calls if you have further questions. I think you know the number. Thanks and goodbye. Operator This conference has been recorded and will be available in one hour. Details of the replay number and access code can be found on Unilever's web site. An audio archive copy of the teleconference will also be available in two hours on Unilever's web site at www.unilever.com. 15 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us ©2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. APRIL 26, 2002 / 2:30PM, UNA.AS^K20 - Q1 2002 Unilever N.V. Earnings Conference Call for the US DISCLAIMER Refinitiv reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes. In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized. THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES REFINITIV OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS. ©2020, Refinitiv. All Rights Reserved. 625307-2020-12-09T14:33:00 16 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us ©2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. APRIL 26, 2002 / 2:30PM, UNA.AS^K20 - Q1 2002 Unilever N.V. Earnings Conference Call for the US
REFINITIV STREETEVENTS EDITED TRANSCRIPT FAL_pa.TO^G08 - NORANDA INC Management Changes Conference Call EVENT DATE/TIME: MAY 28, 2002 / 8:00PM GMT REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us ©2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS Moderator Noranda Inc. Denny Couture Noranda Inc. - VP Communications Derek Pannell Noranda Inc. - President and CEO Aaron Regent Noranda Inc. - President and CEO, Falconbridge Lars-Eric Johansson Noranda Inc. - Executive VP and CFO CONFERENCE CALL PARTICIPANTS Analyst PRESENTATION Moderator - Noranda Inc. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by. Welcome to the Noranda/Falconbridge joint conference call. During the presentation, all participants will be in a listen-only mode. Afterwards, we will conduct a question and answer session. At that time, if you have a question, please press the 1, followed by the 4, on your telephone. As a reminder, this conference is being recorded Tuesday, May 28th, 2002. I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr. Denny [Couture], vice president, communications. Please, go ahead, sir Denny Couture - Noranda Inc. - VP Communications Thank you very much, operator, and thank you all for participating in this joint conference call. Since the people involved in the announcement are the same at both companies, we thought it would be preferable for this time only to hold just one call. We have with us today Derek Pannell, who is our new president and CEO at Noranda, Aaron Regent, the new president and CEO at Falconbridge, and Lars-Eric Johansson, Noranda's new executive vice president and chief financial officer. They will start by saying a few words and we will follow afterwards with your questions. Derek? Derek Pannell - Noranda Inc. - President and CEO Thank you, Denny. I don't expect that this call will be very long. We really wanted to provide you with the opportunity to ask questions, if there are any questions. I want to start by saying a few words, and then I'm going to pass it over to Aaron and then to Lars-Eric. David Kerr is not with us this afternoon. He's actually, I think, on a well-deserved vacation. His decision to reduce his involvement at Noranda was one of the important triggers in the changes that were announced yesterday. He will now be executive chairman at Noranda, stepping down from the position of CEO that he held for many years. In those new duties, David will be mostly involved at the strategic level and, importantly for us, will remain a key player in building relationships that he's developed over the years with industry and with governments. 2 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us ©2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. MAY 28, 2002 / 8:00PM, FAL_pa.TO^G08 - NORANDA INC Management Changes Conference Call For my part, after having done two jobs for more than three months, I must say that I'm not entirely unhappy with the turn of events. I'm very proud to have been selected by the Noranda board for this important job of chief executive officer of Noranda. As I couldn't hold both CEO jobs, the board decided to appoint Aaron Regent to the position of CEO of Falconbridge. Aaron is well known to many of you as a dynamic and creative senior executive. He has now been given another opportunity to use his impressive talents. I will be working closely with Aaron in my new role as deputy chairman of the Falconbridge board, as well as with Alex Balogh, who is another veteran of the mining industry who will be available to help both of us. Aaron's departure to join Falconbridge has opened up the CFO position at Noranda, and there was no hesitation on our part to offer that to Lars-Eric Johansson. Lars-Eric is very well known in the industry and has been playing - been playing that role, in fact, effectively at Falconbridge for some time, and we look forward to him making the same kind of leading contribution in a larger setting. I've had the pleasure of working closely with Lars-Eric during the last few months, and it will be a real pleasure to continue working with him in our new capacities. That sums it up for me. I'm going to pass it over to Aaron just to say a few words. Aaron? Aaron Regent - Noranda Inc. - President and CEO, Falconbridge Thank you, Derek. I am - I'm looking forward to this new challenge here at Falconbridge. I have been closely involved with Falconbridge for a number of years, and I have always been impressed by the quality of the people within the company, and I'm looking forward to working more directly with them. We have a strong team. A few comments I would like to make. I don't anticipate any major changes in the strategic direction of the company. We will continue to focus on the growth in the nickel business and there's a lot of potential on this front. We will also continue to maximize returns from all of our assets. For example, we are actively working with Noranda to maximize the performance of each of our [coffer] assets for the benefit of our respective shareholders and in Falconbridge's case, particularly at [Cape] Creek and within our South American businesses. I also want to assure you that I am committed to increasing the share price of Falconbridge. While it has been suggested in the past that this may not be in Noranda's interest, to the contrary, it is in their interest since Noranda would be the biggest beneficiary as the largest shareholder of the company. I was going to limit my comments to this today, but I look forward to reporting to you as the year progresses. I'll turn it over to Lars-Eric. Thank you, Aaron. Good afternoon, everyone, and thank you, Derek, for your kind words. This is a little embarrassing for a Scandinavian like me to be described like that. I must say that I'm extremely pleased to be given this opportunity to join Noranda and face a new challenge. Not that I didn't have any. I have spent many years as a CFO of Falconbridge and it will be interesting for me to redefine my role and learn about Noranda's other businesses. I'm especially glad to have an opportunity to continue to be working with Derek. I think that we understand each other's vision and that we can easily work side by side. 3 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us ©2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. MAY 28, 2002 / 8:00PM, FAL_pa.TO^G08 - NORANDA INC Management Changes Conference Call The challenges over at Noranda are clear. We will continue to focus on improved profitability and to strengthen our balance sheet. That's really nothing new to me, since I've been doing it for the last 12 years at Falconbridge and before that in several other companies. As the release indicated, I will continue to act as the CFO of Falconbridge until my replacement is identified, and I look forward to continuing to work with Aaron in his new role at Falconbridge. I got to know Aaron in the mid '90s, and over the years we have worked together from time to time on various transactions. So Aaron is familiar with Falconbridge and the challenges ahead. Thank you, and over to you, Derek. Derek Pannell - Noranda Inc. - President and CEO Thank you, Lars-Eric. And I'd like now to open the lines to questions from callers. Operator, if you could begin the question period, please. Thank you. QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS Moderator - Noranda Inc. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, if you would like to register a question, please press the 1, followed by the 4, on your telephone. You will hear a three-tone prompt to acknowledge your request. If your question has been answered and you would like to withdraw your registration, please press the 1, followed by the 3. If you are using a speakerphone, please lift your handset before entering your request. Once again, if you'd like to register a question, press 14 on your telephone. One moment, please. Our first question is from Terrance [Orchland] with TSO Associates. Please proceed with your question. Analyst Thanks for the conference call, guys, and good luck to all of you in your new challenges. I guess my only question is: With respect to each of your new mandates or extended mandates, could we have some sort of a time frame whereby you expect to achieve or look at certain things and come back and report back to us? Obviously, you're familiar with all the companies and activities. We all know that. And we've got a lot of confidence in you in being able to direct the companies in the right direction. But like in every new administration that comes in, doesn't matter which political power in the White House or whatever, they have new visions and new expectations and maybe each one of you want to go through exactly what you want to see and the time frame that you can let us know. Thanks. Derek Pannell - Noranda Inc. - President and CEO Here, maybe I can kick off, Terrance. I think the first thing that we talked about was bringing the Falconbridge and Noranda back offices and so on together. In fact, we have a structure in place and are already beginning that. That would actually take place physically within the next six months. By the end of this year, we would hope to have the people physically relocated. 4 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us ©2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. MAY 28, 2002 / 8:00PM, FAL_pa.TO^G08 - NORANDA INC Management Changes Conference Call And the similar would be true, perhaps a little ahead of that time, for our Santiago offices. We are already seeing that cooperation, in fact, particularly between [Alto Norte] and [Lumas Bias] on the asset. So I think that is going to take another 4 to 6 months to really start seeing it bedded down. But that's the time frame that I see there. With a lot of the other ones, I think the 15% ROE, that's our main target and that's what we clearly are being - are focusing on at both companies. And that, to a large extent, in Noranda and I guess elsewhere within industry, depends on the economic recovery and where we see that happening. Now, there has been perhaps a little plateau or a little faltering in the last month or so, but it is clearly continuing and we're seeing that improving. So our strategy to get to that 15% should be in place by the end of this year. As we begin the planning cycle, in fact, for next year, we should have the plan in place. When we actually achieve it will be dependent on the economy and metals prices, but certainly by the end of this year, we should have a clear plan, a strategic plan, milestones, and so on, in place, to get to that 15%, dependent on metal prices. Aaron? Aaron Regent - Noranda Inc. - President and CEO, Falconbridge You know, Terry, at this point, my main focus is to get out to as many of the Falconbridge operations as possible as quickly as possible, and I think once I've had a chance to do that and reflect, I'll have a better sense of a time line under which - and specific objectives that we want to accomplish, and a time line as to when we could achieve that. But I think everything we're doing at Falconbridge is - or the direction we're heading at Falconbridge is consistent with what Derek has just laid out. Our focus is on how to do we get our returns up, how do we reach that 15% return on equity objective, and that's driving every decision that we have. Derek Pannell - Noranda Inc. - President and CEO Is there another question? Moderator - Noranda Inc. Ladies and gentlemen, as a reminder, if you'd like to register for a question, press 14 on your telephone. Our next question is from David [Sutnick] with EDS. Please proceed with your question Analyst From UBS. Hi, guys. Just a quick question. Just balance sheet overall, particularly at Noranda. If there is - I mean, if there's a heightened sense to try to reduce debt relative to expectations. Before I know there has been some progress at Noranda with the recent equity unit trust that was done. I guess I'm just trying to sense if it's costs on balance sheet and that's it and if there's a heightened sense at all and if you think there will be significant progress this year on the balance sheet side. Derek Pannell - Noranda Inc. - President and CEO You know, I think as we see metal prices pick up, I would certainly expect to see some progress on the Noranda balance sheet and we're very encouraged with the success we've had on the Noranda income fund. That has been very positive and will flow through to the appropriate ratios and debt - debt to equity ratio. So that's going to have an immediate effect, yes. Aaron? 5 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us ©2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. MAY 28, 2002 / 8:00PM, FAL_pa.TO^G08 - NORANDA INC Management Changes Conference Call Aaron Regent - Noranda Inc. - President and CEO, Falconbridge I think - David, it's good to hear from you. I haven't talked talked in a while, but. Analyst How are you doing. Aaron Regent - Noranda Inc. - President and CEO, Falconbridge Great. But I think just to add to Derek's comments here, one of the objections we had set out for ourselves at the beginning of the year was to make sure that our debt levels did not rise from where they were at the end of the year, and in fact, obviously trying to head in the other direction. And so there are a number of things that we have been focusing on. The income fund was an important initiative and that went very well for us, so that brought a lot of capital in which has been used to repay debt. Second, we have looked at our capital expenditure programs and we have been curtailing them, to the extent we can, and so that's making a - having an impact. And also, the exchange rate. At the end of the year, the Canadian dollar was 159. Right now it's kind of 153, 154. So that's also taken debt off our balance sheet on an exchange-adjusted basis. So we are making progress, but I think that the major commitment that the company has is to maintain its investment grade ratings and we are not deviating from that objective at all and we're continuing and I'm sure Lars now takes this a day-to-day basis but we're continuing to look at ways to [inaudible] the balance sheet. Derek Pannell - Noranda Inc. - President and CEO You know, I think also add that, you know, we've taken some of the difficult decisions. We're continuing to look to see what else we can do but I think the losses that were being accumulated - [Gaspey], for example - we've shut that down. That is shut down. Everything is empty down there. We've got the working capital that is in the process of coming out of that. We shut down the Warsaw plant. I think you're probably aware of those. Clearly, that - those difficult decisions have been taken and we're looking around to see whatever else flows on from that. But we're very focused on improving the financial situation short-term. Analyst Great. Thanks. Derek Pannell - Noranda Inc. - President and CEO Anybody else out there? Moderator - Noranda Inc. There are no further questions at this time, sir. 6 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us ©2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. MAY 28, 2002 / 8:00PM, FAL_pa.TO^G08 - NORANDA INC Management Changes Conference Call Derek Pannell - Noranda Inc. - President and CEO Well, thank you, operator. If that is the case, then we'll terminate the call. Thank you very much for your participation, and good-bye. Moderator - Noranda Inc. Ladies and gentlemen, that does conclude the conference call for today. We thank you very much for your participation and we ask that you please disconnect your lines. DISCLAIMER Refinitiv reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes. In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized. THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES REFINITIV OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS. ©2020, Refinitiv. All Rights Reserved. 634760-2020-12-03T20:18:00 7 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us ©2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. MAY 28, 2002 / 8:00PM, FAL_pa.TO^G08 - NORANDA INC Management Changes Conference Call
REFINITIV STREETEVENTS EDITED TRANSCRIPT ETFC.OQ^J20 - Q2 2002 E*TRADE Earnings Conference Call EVENT DATE/TIME: JULY 17, 2002 / 9:00PM GMT REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us ©2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS Len Purkis E*Trade Group, Inc. - Chief Financial Officer Christos Cotsakos E*Trade Group, Inc. - Chairman Of The Board/CEO Arlen Gelbard E*TRADE Bank - CBO & President Mitchell Caplan E*TRADE Group, Inc. - President & COO Glen Shore (ph) Deutsche Bank Richard Griketo (ph) Putnam Level Securities CONFERENCE CALL PARTICIPANTS Adam Townsend J.P. Morgan H&Q - Analyst PRESENTATION Operator Good afternoon, and welcome to the E*TRADE Group, Inc. second quarter 2002 earnings conference call. At this time, all participants have been placed on a listen-only mode, and the floor will be opened for questions following the presentation. I would now like to turn the call over to your host, Len Purkis, Chief Financial Officer. Sir, you may begin. Len Purkis - E*Trade Group, Inc. - Chief Financial Officer Thank you, and good afternoon. Thank you for joining us on the second quarter 2002 conference call for E*TRADE Group. I'm Len Purkis, Chief Financial Officer of E*TRADE Group, and I'm joined here today by Christos M. Cotsakos, Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, along with Mitch Caplan, President and Chief Operating Officer. We've been advised to begin this call with the standard Safe Harbor statement. During this conference call, we will be sharing with you certain projections or other forward-looking statements regarding future events of the future performance of the company. As always, we caution you that certain factors, including risks and uncertainties referred to in the 10-K, 10-Qs and other reports we periodically file with the Securities and Exchange Commission, could cause our actual results to differ materially from those indicated by our projections or forward-looking statements. This call is being taped. The recording will be available by telephone beginning at 5:30 p.m. Pacific time today, through 5:30 p.m. Pacific time on July 26th. The call is also being Webcast at www.etrade.com. No other tape recordings of this call or copies of the taping are authorized or may be relied upon. I'll now turn the call over to Christos. After that, I'll provide you with more specific details on our financial. And Christos will make a few closing remarks and open this briefing to questions. Christos Cotsakos - E*Trade Group, Inc. - Chairman Of The Board/CEO Thanks Len. And thanks everybody for joining us on today's call. 2 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us ©2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. JULY 17, 2002 / 9:00PM, ETFC.OQ^J20 - Q2 2002 E*TRADE Earnings Conference Call The team and I are very pleased to announce our eighth consecutive quarter of ongoing profitability, at 11 cents earnings per share from ongoing operations. We were cash flow positive, we improved interest rate spread, we saw continued success in our cross-sale and up-sale initiatives, and we continued to streamline our very successful business model. These accomplishments are even more significant given the extremely challenging operating environment that all of us face. The financial market recovery did not materialize as investor confidence was hit by geopolitical economic markets and business uncertainties. We saw companies in our industry segment pre-announce mis-earnings forecasts, while others, including many of the large brokerage houses, abandon the online sector all together, due to their incompatible business models and lack of profitability. At E*TRADE Securities, we continue to make the strategic investments to expand and diversify our customer base, and to strengthen our presence in the active trading segment. With the addition of Tradescapes, 83,000 average daily transactions for just the month of June, our average daily transactions for the quarter totaled 109,000, and our run rate exiting the quarter doubled to 166,000. This run rate makes us the leader in the online brokerage industry, as measured by average daily transaction. The Tradescapes acquisition provides our active traders 20 onsite locations, in addition to the New York center, to conduct their trading. We have already made progress in our migration plan to populate our E*TRADE financial centers with professional traders. We now have over 40 professional traders, trading onsite, at our New York center, with an additional 20 professional traders expected by the end of the summer. They are using the market leading technology platform, Lightspeed (ph) . And we expect a transition more traders into E*TRADE financial centers throughout the country by year-end. Now we undertook additional initiatives that increased revenues generated by E*TRADE Institutional. We are executing on an strategic, two-phase initiative, around equity research. In phase one, we recruited an independent research team, formerly from Credit Lyonnais, to provide objective, proprietary, and independent research to our Institutional customer base. In the coming months, our team of six will initiate coverage of over 80 U.S. and European stocks, representing $800 billion in market capitalization, and a pharmaceutical, retail, leisure, technology, and chemical industry. The announcement of this new service has generated significant interest among our existing Institutional customers, and potential new clientele, because of the elevated relevance of unbiased , objective research in today's environment. Now, in phase two, we will leverage what we have already built for our Institutional customers, and make it available to our retail customer base. This group will allow us to off that same personalized, unbiased, independent, objective research to our retail customers with minimal incremental spend. And to take advantage of the growing demand from Institutional traders for direct access to global markets, we are in beta testing with a new electronic trading platform to provide direct access to markets in France, Germany, Switzerland, The Netherlands, and the U.K. We also continue to enhance the value proposition offered to our global retail brokerage customers. We introduce market trader active trading platform in Germany and Hong Kong, provide these customers access to the same Web capabilities as their U.S. counterparts. Now domestically, we continue to enhance our distribution channels to provide greater convenience for our customer household. The company opened an additional seven E*TRADE financial zones, spreading our total to 37 in eight states, with an additional six zones slated to open by the end of this month. 3 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us ©2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. JULY 17, 2002 / 9:00PM, ETFC.OQ^J20 - Q2 2002 E*TRADE Earnings Conference Call The demographics of customers drawn to our zones are very compelling. Those customers who open accounts at one of the zones, open with a higher average balance, and are more likely to increase their balances to more than twice the amount of our average customer. In addition to our initiatives to increase volume, we continue to review, refine, and improve our brokerage pricing strategies. We implemented a differentiated pricing plan, focused on meeting the needs of our defined customer segments. As a low-cost, value added provider, we enjoy the leverage and flexibility of pricing power. And on July 1st, we rolled out a revised power E*TRADE Platinum flat commission rate of 9.99 for qualifying active trading households. In addition to pricing power, we enjoy other competitive advantages of product, service, and execution qualities for the active trader space. E*TRADE Securities is the only major online brokerage to offer direct access applications, fully integrated with customer accounts, one of the things we do on the product side. E*TRADE Securities offers concierge class, dedicated, personal service for active traders, things we're concentrating on the service side. And E*TRADE Securities is the only online brokerage that allows clients direct orders to market makers and ECN's (ph) to be at the same platform. Again, our concentration on execution quality, which is what the active trader demands and wants. Finally, as a result of those very, very focused marketing spend, almost exclusively on active traders, we acquire higher value customers, quarter over quarter. Trading levels from these new active trader accounts increased 21 percent quarter over quarter, and the gross funded access for new active trader accounts increased 26 percent. Now, E*TRADE Bank, we made a strategic shift away from emphasizing our high-deposit interest rates, towards cross-selling our home equity line of credit products, and building long-term relationships with more valuable customers. This quarter, 25 percent of our mortgage products and home equity lines of credit were sold to existing customers. To further deepen these customer relationships, to attract new customers, E*TRADE Bank introduced it's new Internet banking platform, and a three-tier checking account during the quarter. The new platform offered increased functionality to enhance the customer experience through appealing features such as unlimited ATM refunds, and non-minimum balance checking accounts. We also expect these improvements to help us in meeting our objectives of increasing transaction accounts. We continue to diversify our active portfolio with the goal of widening spreads, as we've committed to, to 200 basis point run rate, by year-end, while remaining singularly vigilant about maintaining absolute credit quality. Now having successfully integrated the auto originating platform, acquired from LenNetwork.com (ph) last quarter, we have begun to directly originate auto loans to our good customers. This quarter, originated auto loans and average FICO score of 761. In June, we purchased $700 million of premium auto loans, with an average FICO score of 763. This raises the average FICO score of our auto loan portfolio to over 730. 4 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us ©2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. JULY 17, 2002 / 9:00PM, ETFC.OQ^J20 - Q2 2002 E*TRADE Earnings Conference Call Through E*TRADE Mortgage, we have originated over $1 billion in mortgages this quarter, and we've seen that 50 percent increase in new home equity loans and lines of credit, while maintaining high credit standards with our average mortgage customer generating a FICO score of at least 720. Now, during the quarter, we originated almost 3,000 home equity units, and the portfolio is now well over $100 million. On the liability side, we are placing a greater emphasis on providing our deposit customers better service and greater convenience. We experienced and expected eight percent decline in our certificate of deposit accounts, as we chose to no longer offer rates in the top one percent nationally. By diversifying our asset portfolio, and transitioning our deposit base away from higher cost certificates of deposit, we have aligned our interest rate spread to 144 basis points in the second quarter, up from 127 basis points last quarter. And we remain firmly focused on transactional deposit growth. Now, as we invest in and grow our business, we continue to streamline to efficiency and productivity our operating models. Operator We're sorry, your call did not go through. Will you please try your call again. Len Purkis - E*Trade Group, Inc. - Chief Financial Officer Operator, are we still ... Operator We're sorry, your call did not go through. Will you please try your call again. Christos Cotsakos - E*Trade Group, Inc. - Chairman Of The Board/CEO Leandra (ph) ? Leandra (ph) , are you there? Unidentified Do we have a backup? Operator I apologize, sir. You may resume. Christos Cotsakos - E*Trade Group, Inc. - Chairman Of The Board/CEO Leandra (ph) , is Len Purkis still connected? Leandra (ph) , is Len Purkis still connected? 5 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us ©2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. JULY 17, 2002 / 9:00PM, ETFC.OQ^J20 - Q2 2002 E*TRADE Earnings Conference Call Operator He is being reconnected as we speak, sir. Christos Cotsakos - E*Trade Group, Inc. - Chairman Of The Board/CEO Thank you. Operator Excuse me, sir. You may resume. Christos Cotsakos - E*Trade Group, Inc. - Chairman Of The Board/CEO OK everybody. Sorry, we had a problem with the host that we use for the call connected. I'm going to start back with our expense story on margins. As we invest in and grow our business, we continue to streamline our operating model for increased efficiency and strength as a low-cost leader. To this point, we continue to see the first of our efficiency initiatives, and have lowered our break-even point another six percent in our E*TRADE Securities business, as we focused on prudently our cost of services and operating expenses. We also believe there remains room for additional improvement. Overall operating margins improved to 21 percent, and gross margin improved to 58 percent, as a result of our operational efficiencies and focused on non-transactional revenue streams. Now, this quarter, we've completed several key efficiency initiatives to reduce ongoing operating expenses. We prudently manage marketing and advertising expenses, and reduce our spend rate by $20 million from last quarter, as promised. We completed our migration to the open and scalable Lennox platform. This move gives us the competitive advantage of rapidly and easily deploying and integrating customers facing applications. In addition to benefits from enhanced customer functionality and usability, this move is also expected to contribute over $12 million in annual hardware and software made in savings (ph) . We also implemented new networking architecture that increased incumbency and reduced network latency. This technology initiative helps enhance the customer experience, and increases system liability, now running at 99.4 percent availability. This is also reduced annual networking costs by $5 million. And, we continue to streamline our global back office operation by effectively leveraging technology through simple and effective steps, such as increased in the electronic delivery of trading confirmations, and monthly statements by 50 percent, we've been able to generate $3 million in annual savings. We are very pleased with the progress we have made in identifying and executing on our efficiency and productivity initiatives, but we are not done yet. We're going to continue to pursue additional opportunities to enhance the variable and flexible nature of our cost structure, and will continue to be appropriately diligent about all expenses. Now, through our efforts to streamline operations, sustain revenue and improve earnings, we delivered, as I said before, our eighth consecutive quarter of operating profitability in line with our guidance and enhanced the many leverage points of the operating model. 6 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us ©2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. JULY 17, 2002 / 9:00PM, ETFC.OQ^J20 - Q2 2002 E*TRADE Earnings Conference Call Looking at all that we have accomplished, I'm very proud of the E*TRADE Financial team, who continue to execute our plan under extremely challenging and demanding market conditions. As a shareowner, I'm very excited about the future that awaits us. And as this company's leader, the team and I are very dedicated to making E*TRADE Financial a trusted leader in this next generation of financial services. Now, before I discuss some surveys that we've done online and our future expectations and what we are doing to prepare for the future, I'd like to turn it over to Len to review the numbers - Len. Len Purkis - E*Trade Group, Inc. - Chief Financial Officer Thanks, Christos. First we delivered net revenues of $316 million as the market experienced some of the lowest trading volume since third quarter of 2001. This represents a $15 million decline over our first quarter in a challenging market environment, with revenue up $8 million over the same quarter last year. On the expense side, we continue to reap the benefits of our ongoing efficiency initiatives and improve their ongoing operating margin by $15 million over last quarter. Second, we were $15 million cash flow positive for the quarter before share repurchases of $15 million. Accordingly, our free cash position remains strong at $335 million, flat with first quarter of 2002. We expect to be cash-flow positive from operations in the second half of the year. Thirdly, we continue to strengthen our balance sheet by retiring an additional $15 million of debt through exchange transactions in this quarter. This brings our total debt reductions to $280 million since last June. We also demonstrated our confidence in our model by repurchasing another 2.6 million shares during the quarter at a weighted average price of $5.66 per share. This brings the total shares repurchased to 33 million shares under a multi-year, board-authorized repurchase program of 50 million shares. So since last August, we've repurchased a total of 40 million shares, which includes seven million shares from Softbank prior to the implementation of the current program. First to our revenues. Our net brokerage revenues totaled $215 million. That's down $9 million from last quarter, with fee-based revenues partially offsetting this decline resulting from lower transaction volumes. Commissions of $71 million were down 14 percent over the prior quarter, and down 29 percent for the same quarter in 2001. This decline was largely due to the reduction in trading activity by massive fluid (ph) and Main Street consumers. At E*TRADE Bank, gain on sale of originated loans was down slightly to 22 percent of net banking revenues from 23 percent last quarter, and down from 32 percent a year ago. Gain on loans and securities held for sale was down to 17 percent of net banking revenues in comparison to 20 percent last quarter, but up from 11 percent same quarter last year. Reflecting our widening interest spread, net banking interest income was up to 53 percent of net banking revenue from 50 percent last quarter, and up from 49 percent second quarter in the prior year. As anticipated, a decline in net banking revenues by $6 million over last quarter is largely due to the reduction in mortgage-related revenue. 7 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us ©2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. JULY 17, 2002 / 9:00PM, ETFC.OQ^J20 - Q2 2002 E*TRADE Earnings Conference Call Although the interest rate environment remains favorable, refinancing volumes are down from the market peak in the fourth of 2001. And this has affected both our gain on sales of originated loans generated through E*TRADE Mortgage, as well as gain on loans and securities held for sale related to our correspondent flow business. In anticipation of this decline, we successfully refocused E*TRADE Mortgage to increase home equity production. Also, given the continued strength of the general housing market, we place more emphasis on originating loans for home purchases in addition to refinancings. As a result, we were able to largely offset the decline in refinancing volumes, and have developed a more diversified product mix to offset additional reductions in refinancing volumes if rates rise in the coming months. We continue to progress toward a goal of widening bank spreads to 200 basis points. This quarter our interest rates spread at the bank, increased to 144 basis points from 127 last quarter, and up from 88 basis points during the same period last year. The banks risk profile continues to be largely unaffected by our asset diversification efforts, and our portfolio enjoys an average FICA score of over 720. Charge-offs improved for the quarter at 16 basis points on total average assets. That's down from 18 basis points last quarter, and well below the first quarter industry average of 21 basis points. We've also increased our provision for loan loss this quarter to $4.4 million. Reserves of 20 basis points against our loan balance have been established to protect against anticipated future losses. Our loan loss reserve as a percentage of non-performing loans declined slightly to 66 percent from 71 percent in the first quarter due to our prior auto loan production having reached its peak loss period. As our asset classes expand, we remain vigilant in adequately reserving against future losses and continuing to fund provisions for loan losses as necessary. As ever, we will not compromise on the credit quality of our portfolio. On the expense side, our efficiency initiatives contributed to a drop in cost of services to $134 million. That's down five percent from the first quarter of 2002, and down 11 percent from the second quarter last year. These initiatives led to an increasing gross margin to 58 percent, up from 57 percent last quarter, and up from 51 percent same quarter last year. Total ongoing operating expenses declined by $23 million to $115 million, a decrease of 16 percent over last quarter, and a decrease of 18 percent year over year. Selling and marketing equaled $49 million, a $20 million decrease over our first quarter, and a $6 million decrease over the same quarter last year. As we indicated in our last call, our first quarter selling and marketing expenses, including costs associated with the promotion of our rebranding, including our Super Bowl sponsorship. This quarter's reduction in marketing spend reflects not only the one-time nature of these first-quarter investments, but also a more deliberate and targeted marketing campaign. General and administrative expense was $51 million. That's $3 million lower than last quarter and $11 million lower than the same period last year. We expect this to approximate our ongoing run rate for G&A expense. Consistent with our practice of full disclosure and reporting transparency, we created a separate line item credit, which is included in operating expenses, of $23 million called "executive settlement." 8 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us ©2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. JULY 17, 2002 / 9:00PM, ETFC.OQ^J20 - Q2 2002 E*TRADE Earnings Conference Call This represents the value of the supplemental executive retirement plan, or SERP, and other benefits returned by Christos to the company and its shareowners, and also reflects the terms of his new, two-year employment contract effective May 15th, 2002. This credit is considered outside of ongoing operations for our second quarter financial results, and the benefit is not included in the 11 cents earnings per share from ongoing operations. So income from ongoing operations equaled $39 million, a $12 million improvement over last quarter and a $33 million improvement over same quarter last year. Earnings per share from ongoing operations for this quarter, 11 cents versus eight cents the prior quarter and two cents for the same period last year. Turning to our guidance, we are comfortable with the Street consensus of 45 cents earnings per share from ongoing operations for the year 2002. Our guidance for 2002 has been based on, among other things, transaction volumes for the year being relatively flat with 2001 volumes. Market conditions have been worse than this, and yet we have been able to deliver results consistent with our guidance. Our focus and challenge will be to continue to improve non-transactional revenue, as well as provide offsetting operating efficiencies, to allow us to sequentially increase earnings per share from ongoing operations in the third and fourth quarters. So in conclusion, our focus on both diversifying our revenue streams and improving operational efficiency is clear from our year-over-year results. Revenue is up $8 million from the same quarter last year, and in these results are a decline in net brokerage revenue by $40 million, or six percent, and an increase in net bank revenue by $22 million, or 28 percent. New revenue streams include market-making, professional traders, auto loans, mortgages and home equity lines. And this represents true revenue diversification, both within the bank and the brokerage businesses, and also within the total company revenue streams. Regarding improving operational efficiencies, cost of services declined $17 million from same quarter last year on an $8 million revenue increase. And that's driving our gross margin percent up from 51 percent last year to 58 percent this year. Add to this the efficiencies in other ongoing operating expenses of $26 million, of which marketing is only $6 million, and we have the result of increasing pre-tax income from ongoing operations in the second quarter - seven times the same amount, or seven times the amount same quarter a year ago. So our success in attaining and exceeding our goals despite the challenges we have faces over the past year, and particularly this last quarter, is a testament to the strength of our business model, our strategy and our execution on that strategy. We continue to be committed to integrity and excellence to achieve our stated goals and objectives. With that, back to you, Christos. Christos Cotsakos - E*Trade Group, Inc. - Chairman Of The Board/CEO Thanks, Len. Now, it remains difficult to predict when there will be a recovery in the financial markets, but markets like these build tomorrow's leaders today. Economically challenging times are really the best litmus test for emerging as well as traditional companies, because if you can deliver today, when the markets improve, so do the results as you fully realize your operational leverage. 9 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us ©2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. JULY 17, 2002 / 9:00PM, ETFC.OQ^J20 - Q2 2002 E*TRADE Earnings Conference Call Amidst the uncertainty of the current environment, we recently surveyed approximately 20,000 unique customers visiting our site. Active traders, high-asset investors, mutual fund investors, customers using the site for research and customers checking their portfolios shared with us their views of the current economic climate. The following gives you a small example of selected insights from the survey. There still clearly remains a lack of confidence in the economy. Despite this reality, consumers are staying in the markets. They are taking a more conservative and cautious approach with their finances, and instead of getting out of the markets all together. In fact, more than half of the unique customers surveyed are opting to stay the course and hold on to their existing equity investments. Yet the fact remains that consumers are not necessarily content to pursue this course alone. Forty percent of the customers report being concerned or anxious about the direction of their finances. We believe that customers are seeking alternative options for maximizing their financial returns, and are looking beyond traditional means currently in the marketplace to find them. And to meet this demand, E*TRADE Financial is going to continue to develop new channels with personalized content to deliver the right information to the right customers at the right time, that is independent and unbiased. Key to our success is our ability to effectively leverage technology to meet the financial needs of our customers, even when they are not trading. Now, the mortgage industry continues to prosper. Thirty-seven percent of customers either recently purchased or are considering purchasing a home, while many other consumers are considering refinancing their home or taking out an auto or personal loan. Following our success in the mortgage business, we effectively cross-sold our home equity lines of credit and loan product this quarter. Going forward, we'll continue to develop and market our new auto loan platform and additional credit products for customers with the highest of FICO scores. There will also appear to be continued opportunity to win a greater share of the banking wallet. Only four percent of customers report having consolidated their bank and brokerage accounts, yet one in five actively moved money between their bank and investing institution, and are considering consolidating their accounts. They also told us that they prioritize low fees and convenience over high interest rates as important features in a bank account. The expanded capabilities of our new Internet banking platform will help us increase product penetration with this valuable household base. Now, there are significant opportunities for driving brokerage revenues in this market environment. A smaller but significant segment of customers - that's one in four - is getting back into the market with the stocks right now. This movement is being led by the active traders, one of our most valuable customer segments. We plan to build on our strong foundation established with Tradescape to continue expanding and aggressively going into the professional trading market while focusing other efforts to re-engage mainstream customers that are in the market today, early in the fall. We have a trusted brand, an excellent financial foundation, sufficient cash reserves. We expect to generate positive cash flow from operations in the second half of the year. We have a diversified, long-term strategy, a six-year track record in a host of market conditions, and the expertise to continue to grow our business, service our customers and deliver long-term shareowner and stakeholder value, while managing risks and our cost base. We are not only strategically placed for the future dynamics and those changes in the financial services industry which we all know are occurring at a rapid pace, but we also are well positioned to thrive when the market, the economy and consumer confidence rebound. 10 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us ©2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. JULY 17, 2002 / 9:00PM, ETFC.OQ^J20 - Q2 2002 E*TRADE Earnings Conference Call With that, we'll be glad to open it up for questions. QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS Operator Thank you. The floor is now open for questions. If you do have a question, please press the numbers one followed by four on your touch-tone phone. If at any point your question is answered, you may remove yourself from the queue by pressing the pound key. We do ask that while posing your question, to please pick up your handset to provide optimum sound quality. Once again, to ask a question, please press the numbers one followed by four on your touch-tone telephone. Please hold while we poll for questions. Our first question is coming from Adam Townsend from J.P. Morgan. Please pose your question. Adam Townsend - J.P. Morgan H&Q - Analyst Hi, good afternoon, guys. Christos Cotsakos - E*Trade Group, Inc. - Chairman Of The Board/CEO Hey, Adam. How are you doing? Adam Townsend - J.P. Morgan H&Q - Analyst Good. Just had a couple of questions. How are you reconciling the decline in reported bank customers? The number of customers and number of households appeared to have declined sequentially. Christos Cotsakos - E*Trade Group, Inc. - Chairman Of The Board/CEO Arlen, why don't you take that, and then Mitch and I will follow up. Arlen Gelbard - E*TRADE Bank - CBO & President OK. You know, looking at the big picture, we've been concentrating on optimizing our balance sheet, not only by diversifying our assets, but also focusing on the pricing of our liabilities, as well as cross-selling to E*TRADE Financial customers, both on the credit and deposit products. And this quarter we were actually very encouraged by the results. Because what we've done is, we've revised, as Christos spoke about, the bank's value proposition as we move away from one focus solely, or primarily, on high rates, to one more on value in the form - for the customer - in the form of high year (ph) rates, coupled with superior customer service and superior convenience and access. We're also focusing on changing the mix of our accounts, which emphasize transactional accounts. 11 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us ©2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. JULY 17, 2002 / 9:00PM, ETFC.OQ^J20 - Q2 2002 E*TRADE Earnings Conference Call What we saw in this quarter was that virtually all outflows, both in deposits and in accounts, came from those customers who would come to us for higher rate CDs, as well as certain expected attrition in our money market accounts. So what we're pleased about, however, is that the attrition was actually lower than that, which we modeled, which to us is an indication that our customers are more sticky and less price sensitive. And we'll continue to develop and refine our products to offer greater value and deepen the relationship with our customers, because our goal is to offer the right product to our customers to meet their demands at all times. Christos Cotsakos - E*Trade Group, Inc. - Chairman Of The Board/CEO And, Adam, what you're seeing is, with nSight (ph) our relational data warehouse, we're able now to look at some of the changing migration patterns of our banking customers as well as our brokerage customers and some of our institutional customers, and look at either putting our marketing power behind where we think the trends are moving, or how we can best optimize profitability in any particular customer segment. So we're more concerned with the profitability and revenue going forward, and optimizing the account penetration for households than we are just grabbing accounts for accounts sake, which become very expensive for you in the long term if they're hollow. Mitch, you want to add anything? Mitchell Caplan - E*TRADE Group, Inc. - President & COO Yeah. And the other thing I would add, Adam, is that, you know, Arlen has been singly focused on the banks. Jarrett's been singly focused on the brokerage. You also have to look at it in the aggregate. So we may have an E*TRADE Financial customer who has either a CD or a money market, has at some point last quarter re-engaged or decided to potentially re-engage in the investing and brokerage business and move money over to a money market account on brokerage in preparation. So that would potentially show a decline in an account on the banking side, but yet there would be a pickup or a net flow of money over to brokerage. Adam Townsend - J.P. Morgan H&Q - Analyst OK. Good explanations. Thank you for that. One other question I had. I was a little perplexed by the weakness of the mortgage lines. I was just reading recently that a couple other banks, Greenpoint and Wells Fargo, had really nice sequential upticks in the mortgage and the Mortgage Banker Association data suggested that through the latter part of the second quarter, you know, even Refi - the Refi index was actually rising, near all-time highs. Can you talk a little bit about, you know, where you're getting new people coming in there, if there's - if we've (ph) exhausted the cross sell opportunity, maybe touch on that for me? 12 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us ©2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. JULY 17, 2002 / 9:00PM, ETFC.OQ^J20 - Q2 2002 E*TRADE Earnings Conference Call Unidentified Sure. It's exactly what Arlin (ph) and his team have been working on. So, Arlin (ph) . Unidentified Sure. In this quarter, we're also pleased with the results for the mortgage business. You know, as we said when we acquired the company, we acquired it really for two reasons. One is to generate assets for the bank's portfolio, as well as to generate revenue for origination and sale of loans. You know, what we saw is that there was a decline slightly in the refinance volume. But this was, in part, a concerted effort on our part to ramp up the production of home equity loans, which are the types of loans that we like to keep and place into the bank's portfolio, as well as additional focus on trying to develop our purchase money business, which again is more likely to result in loans that we place into the bank's portfolio. You know, if you look at the first - the first mortgage volume, it's only down slightly quarter over quarter. But what's very encouraging for us is that the mix, if you look at between the volume for refinances versus the volume of purchases, you know, in Q1, we had a refi volume of about 85 percent and a purchase volume of 15 percent. But in Q2, our refi volume went down to 65 percent as our purchase volume went up to 35 percent. And this growth in the mix between first and refi is about double the industry average for Q2. And also, as you saw from the numbers, our origination of elox (ph) was up, you know, just in terms of a dollar basis, up 51 percent for the quarter. So we're real pleased with that, as well as the fact that our pipeline is strong coming out of Q2. Unidentified Yeah. And, Adam (ph) , again, what you're seeing is much like what Jared's (ph) doing with the E*TRADE securities in our brokerage division is we're redirecting, based on consumer changing behavioral patterns in insight (ph) . And rather than spending a lot of money on the mainstreaming investments this quarter, where we saw transactions drop and we believed it was going to drop even more significantly in the summer, we refocused that spend onto the active trader segment so we can ensure that we boosted that segment, which we knew from the research was going to be much more prolific than the mainstream customer was, realized that they would probably come back slowly and choppy - right - but in the fall. so you're going to see that continually with us each quarter as we look at what that relational data warehouse is telling us on consumer behavior trend and allocating our resources, our marketing spend and where we're looking for efficiencies from one product or one service to another, based on what division or diversification that we've got throughout the entire company, which really does become a great strength of ours in this current environment that we're in. Operator Thank you. Your next question is coming from Glen Shore (ph) from Deutsche Bank. Please pose your question. Glen Shore - Deutsche Bank Hi, guys. 13 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us ©2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. JULY 17, 2002 / 9:00PM, ETFC.OQ^J20 - Q2 2002 E*TRADE Earnings Conference Call Unidentified Hi, Glen (ph) . How you doing? Glen Shore - Deutsche Bank great. The first thing, maybe from Arlin (ph) . Oil loans now 14.4 percent of the bank portfolio. What is the upper end of your comfort range there? Unidentified At this point, we're working with our - with our product mix. You know, we're ultimately limited, as an institution by our QTL, our qualified thrift lender test. But we haven't set an upper limit. In large part, you know, we look at the percentage that we want to have in mortgages and mortgage-backed securities and the rest in other, meaning. Glen Shore - Deutsche Bank That's the - that's the 75/25? gary? Sixty-five/35. Glen Shore - Deutsche Bank Sixty-five/35. gary? But otherwise, you know, what we will end up with ultimately as a mix really depends on the market, what the market has to offer us. Unidentified Gary (ph) , again, it's the same - the same comment - right - with regards to 65/35. We're going to - we're going to put those resources where we think we get the biggest bang for our buck, both short and long term. gary? Right. And the - and the... Unidentified We're paying strict attention to all the customer segments, all the products and services almost on a weekly basis. Glen Shore - Deutsche Bank On the portfolio that you just picked up during this quarter, you've commented on the high FICA (ph) scores. Can you give us a sense for what the yield pickup is and if it's leased or new loans and where you're sourcing them from? Is it all from Chase? 14 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us ©2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. JULY 17, 2002 / 9:00PM, ETFC.OQ^J20 - Q2 2002 E*TRADE Earnings Conference Call Unidentified It's not from Chase. But I can't really discuss where it's coming from. It's coming from - it's direct origination. They're newly originated loans. It's a reasonable mix, slightly skewed in the favor of used orders as opposed to new orders. But they are - you know, they have customers who have, as we said, the very high FICA (ph) loan - FICA (ph) scores. And that's really about it. Glen Shore - Deutsche Bank No comment on the yield pickup? Is it similar in that 40, 50 basis-point range over your mortgage portfolio? Unidentified No comment on that. Glen Shore - Deutsche Bank OK. A couple housekeeping... Unidentified Glen (ph) , he's not going to let you back into the number for the model. Glen Shore - Deutsche Bank I'll still try. How about the reserve quarter to quarter? It doesn't look like much change. MPAs (ph) are pretty flat. And the provision went up a little bit. Is the reserve basically unchanged quarter to quarter? Unidentified I assume you want me to take that, Mitch (ph) ? Unidentified ... is it a unchanged. Unidentified Yeah. Basically, they are unchanged. Unidentified That's it, basically unchanged. 15 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us ©2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. JULY 17, 2002 / 9:00PM, ETFC.OQ^J20 - Q2 2002 E*TRADE Earnings Conference Call Glen Shore - Deutsche Bank OK. Maybe just one more clarity point on guidance. So the top line, obviously, is weak. The outlook is not great. Trading stinks. Mortgages are coming off of their peak. And you made a comment that the GNA, we're, kind of, near their run rate. So I understand margin expansion. A nd the cost saves that you outlined on the technology side, is that enough to get us to that 45 cents that you reiterated is there more across the board on each of the expense lines that we're expecting? Unidentified I think where we're going to - if you look at where we are on six months, we've obviously done 19 cents... Glen Shore - Deutsche Bank Right. Unidentified ... in a real tough environment. But if you look at our gross margins, we're still looking at those being in the high 50s to maybe 60 percent in this environment. And the GNA and take that (ph) , the marketing being in the same sort of percentage through revenue as they are for the first six months. But what you're really looking for to get you to that 45 EPS, 45-cent EPS is you're going to see two key drivers. One is going to be the bank achieving its interest rate spread expansion. And the other is just going to be ongoing efficiencies with the programs we've got in place. So there's a very clear program as how we get from the six-month arena to the 45 cents. Unidentified And remember, Glen (ph) , we're not - you know, we're not looking at the 45 cents singularity. We're looking at the dollar EPS, which is what we're driving for in the near term and to show that we can leverage this model in most environments. And when it does flip around, we can take a larger percentage of the transaction revenue that we get and drop a large margin of that to the bottom line. So, you know, there's an exogenous event (ph) out there that makes things very difficult. Certainly everybody is under pressure. But given where it currently is today and given how we performed in this quarter, we're still not being able to meet the transaction volume that we had last year because remember, previous guidance we said that the transaction volume would have to be flat to slightly lower plus to meet our guidance number, again, it was significant lower and we still met it. And that gives us a lot of confidence on how we're executing on really three areas - one, how we manage risk, two, how we manage our cost; and three, a lot of the innovations that we're doing in our technology group to leverage that in our operating model. And that currently gives us some good confidence. And, Mitch (ph) , you want to add anything? 16 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us ©2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. JULY 17, 2002 / 9:00PM, ETFC.OQ^J20 - Q2 2002 E*TRADE Earnings Conference Call Unidentified Yeah. And, Glen (ph) , last point is two things. One is clearly, we've guided conservatively with respect to both cost of services and operating expenses. I think you know Christos (ph) drives me pretty hard to focus on that. And so, I think you'd expect for us to continue to be vigilant about that. As well, when you look at the top line growth, you can figure out as well as anybody what happens is we continue to widen bank spreads and how much that helps in terms of pickup. Also, what we are seeing and I want to give, sort of, cautious but general guidance around the mortgage business. One of Adam's (ph) earlier questions was about, you know, how do you look at, you know, the flow of revenue and income from your mortgage business. For the first time, we are different than Greenpoint (ph) and others. We're balancing what we put on balance sheets and widened spreads against what we choose not to put on balance sheet and sell into the secondary market in (ph) a gain. So one thing that is comforting is you will see us right now exiting - and we haven't seen these sorts of numbers for a while - exiting Q2 with over $500 million in the pipeline around the mortgage business in loans. So based on the refinance index that everybody's seeing in the marketplace, we are no difference than what's happening everywhere else. We see that as a huge opportunity. And it will either show up top line revenue growth in the gain on sale or in the widened spread or more accurately, in some combination of those two. Unidentified I think lastly is you could have a somewhat stronger July and maybe a weaker August and maybe come out again a little stronger in September, which could balance things out across the board. So we're watching that carefully. But the first couple of weeks of July are very encouraging. And they certainly are much stronger than they were the last quarter. We do think that will slowdown in August but maybe with a pickup in September. So that gives us also some confidence, again, barring anything exogenous our control. Operator Thank you. Your next question is coming from Richard Griketo (ph) , from Putnam Level (ph) Securities. Please pose your question. Richard Griketo - Putnam Level Securities Yeah. Hi, guys. Unidentified Hey, Rich (ph) . 17 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us ©2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. JULY 17, 2002 / 9:00PM, ETFC.OQ^J20 - Q2 2002 E*TRADE Earnings Conference Call Richard Griketo - Putnam Level Securities Hi. First question is on the other brokerage revenue, we've seen a nice up tick this quarter, actually in last quarter, as well. And I think you alluded to a little bit on the fee-based - when you made a comment on fee-based revenue. Can you just give us a little bit color of, you know, what's causing the up tick, Glen (ph) ? Unidentified Yeah. Well, Glen (ph) . Then we can have Jared (ph) follow it up since he runs that division. Unidentified Yeah. On the brokerage revenue, remember, we've got mutual fund fees in there. We've got BSGs (ph) , predominantly fee-related income. And we introduced the handling fees this quarter and other fee-based revenue. There's also a maintenance fees in there. But it's really coming from the increased fee revenue that's really been introduced this quarter. Unidentified Jared (ph) , you want to add anything? Unidentified I guess the only thing I'd add to that is, you know, this is - this is a good base to work from. That increase is recurrent. Unidentified You know, Rich (ph) , I would tell you, the other thing that we're working on now that we have the three strong divisions with Jared (ph) , Arlin (ph) , with banking and brokerage and Josh (ph) in technology, we're looking at what we can do with software licensing and revenues, et cetera, to build up the technology revenue stream that we can have in the company. And you'll have three strong diversified streams, all helping to mitigate different changes in consumer behavior or in the marketplace, depending on what aspects of the business you're in. So it may not be next quarter but the quarter after, you'll start seeing Josh (ph) report now from his division as we realign some things, the revenue and responsibility he's got. And the numbers will be coming out of there. Richard Griketo - Putnam Level Securities OK. And my last question, you know, I got to ask this question. You know, is there anything - or what is your feeling, Christos (ph) now, you know, with investors since the comp issue? You know, is there anything we can do? The stock's been off significantly since the end of April. We know the steps you've taken. What's your feeling towards, you know, the reaction to the stock and invested behavior here. And we know it's been tough market conditions too? 18 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us ©2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. JULY 17, 2002 / 9:00PM, ETFC.OQ^J20 - Q2 2002 E*TRADE Earnings Conference Call Unidentified Well, I think we've been - you know, we - you know, it was a contentious environment between, you know, the shareholders, the board and us. Let me tell you three or four things that we've done. First is we've really over delivered on one, not only what I stated I was going to give back, but even gave back much more than that, especially to our associates, as well as more to our shareholders to show that I am certainly in line with regard and have always been with our shareholders. Secondarily is, with a really shortened contract, which is very simple, easy to read, no nonsense, to show the tough economic and challenging times that we're all in. That's, kind of, number one. Number two is, on the corporate governance side, we meet almost all the NYSC (ph) list of requirements now for governance. We are adding an outside independent director that we hope to have on board before the end of the year. We also have our corporate governance committee. And we do have a lead director, by the way, and a fully independent governance committee/audit (ph) committee. And we're evaluating all the charters of outside counsel to make sure that we use the guidelines with Calpers (ph) to make sure that we are in compliance with absolutely unequivocal great corporate governance across the board. And then, thirdly is once the summer's over, I'm going to go back around to all the large investors and institutions and talk to them, with Mitch (ph) and with Glen (ph) about where we are with the dollar, where we are with regard to company, its execution of its plan and where we are with where we think we are with this great model and leverage. So we believe that a good portion of that is behind us. As you know, we still have the soft bank overhang, which is a part of the issue. There are $15 million - there are 15 million shares. We still have people worried about light transaction volume in the summertime. And the whole sector is just out of favor. But we believe, if you look at where we are from a valuation standpoint now and where we're trading as far as the multiple goes, it's very attractive, going forward, good value, good technology, good business model. And when the market does come back, we're going to be well positioned. So we think a lot of that stuff, Rich (ph) , is behind us. And we thank you for asking that question. Richard Griketo - Putnam Level Securities Thanks, Christos (ph) . Operator Thank you. That will conclude our question-and-answer session. I would like to turn the call back over for further (ph) comments. Unidentified Yeah. I just want to thank everybody. Have an enjoyable summer. And let's look forward to the market coming back in the fall. Thank you. Have a great day. Operator Thank you. Thank you all for your participation. You may disconnect your lines at this time and have a great day. Thank you. 19 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us ©2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. JULY 17, 2002 / 9:00PM, ETFC.OQ^J20 - Q2 2002 E*TRADE Earnings Conference Call DISCLAIMER Refinitiv reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes. In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized. THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES REFINITIV OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS. ©2020, Refinitiv. All Rights Reserved. 643603-2020-10-06T10:03:00 20 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us ©2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. JULY 17, 2002 / 9:00PM, ETFC.OQ^J20 - Q2 2002 E*TRADE Earnings Conference Call
THOMSON REUTERS STREETEVENTS EDITED TRANSCRIPT ODP.OQ - Q2 2002 Office Depot Earnings Conference Call EVENT DATE/TIME: JULY 17, 2002 / 12:00PM GMT OVERVIEW: Office Depot reports 2Q02 revenues up 4% and total operating profits up 15% to $92.7m, despite flat comparable worldwide sales. Worldwide e-commerce sales increased 38%, with company on track to exceed $2b in FY02. Technology sales were down 12% in quarter. Q&A Focus: Share repurchase; Store closures; Options policy; Internet business. THOMSON REUTERS STREETEVENTS | www.streetevents.com | Contact Us ©2020 Thomson Reuters. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Thomson Reuters content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Reuters. 'Thomson Reuters' and the Thomson Reuters logo are registered trademarks of Thomson Reuters and its affiliated companies. CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS Eileen Dunn Office Depot, Inc. - Vice President Invetor Relations, Public Relations Bruce Nelson Office Depot, Inc. - Chairman, Chief Executive Officer Charles Brown Office Depot, Inc. - Chief Financial Officer CONFERENCE CALL PARTICIPANTS Daniel Bender Aaron Robinson Peter McMullen David Young Bernstein David Asasio Brian James Whitney Pilson Derek Weiner Matt Kassler PRESENTATION Operator Good morning. We would like to welcome you to the Office Depot second quarter 2002 earnings conference call. All lines will be in a listen-only mode until after today's presentation. At which point, instructions will be given in order to ask a question. At the request of Office Depot, today's conference is being recorded. I would like to introduce Ms. Eileen Dunn, Vice President of Investor Relations and Public Relations, who will make a few opening comments. Ms. Dunn, you may begin. Eileen Dunn - Office Depot, Inc. - Vice President Invetor Relations, Public Relations Good morning. And thanks for joining us for today's second quarter 2002 earnings conference call. Before we begin today's presentation, I'd like to remind you that except for historical data, comments on this call should be considered forward-looking within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigations Reform Act Forward-looking statements, including projections as to revenues or earnings and other statements related to expected future performance by Office Depot, involve risks and uncertainties which may cause actual results to differ materially from those discussed on this call. Please refer to our filings with the SEC for further information. Now, I'd like to turn today's call over to Office Depot's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Bruce Nelson. Bruce Nelson - Office Depot, Inc. - Chairman, Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Eileen. And good morning to all of you Thanks again for joining us. I hope you had an opportunity to read our press release this morning on our earnings. I will take you through a summary highlights of the performance we had during the second quarter, and then, obviously, at the end of the call, give you a chance to ask us any questions you'd like to ask. Overall, before I make my summary comments, I would say in spite of soft revenue, as you've all seen, our second quarter performance from our standings was outstanding. We met or exceeded all of our internal targets, our objectives are in line, our costs are in line, and we achieved our earnings forecast both internal and external. On a consolidated sales basis, for the quarter, our second quarter revenues was 4%. Comparable worldwide sales were flat for the second quarter, and declined 1% for the first half of the year. 2 THOMSON REUTERS STREETEVENTS | www.streetevents.com | Contact Us ©2020 Thomson Reuters. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Thomson Reuters content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Reuters. 'Thomson Reuters' and the Thomson Reuters logo are registered trademarks of Thomson Reuters and its affiliated companies. JULY 17, 2002 / 12:00PM, ODP.OQ - Q2 2002 Office Depot Earnings Conference Call Our worldwide E-commerce sales, our leading position worldwide, drew 38%, and on a year-to-date, and we are, in fact, to exceed more than $2 billion in E-commerce this year. No one sells more over the Internet than Office Depot does. Business to business office supplies,we are the biggest. Our results continue to believe that we expand that leadership. On a company-wide basis, our customer complaints dropped 32% from last year. This is in spite of an improvement in the second quarter last year. We are reaching all-time high indices in satisfying our customers. Our indexes across all channels increased. The weakening U.S. dollar which primarily impacted us in the month of June, favorably impacted in total quarter two sales by $15 million. But on a year to date basis, we are still $5 million negative compared to last year as a result of currency in the first five months of the year. On a total sales growth perspective, our retail comps negative 1% for the second quarter, representing our fifth consecutive quarter of improving comp trends. Our North America comp transactions were up 3%. A very encouraging sign in our North America retail stores. The cost decline was driven primarily by continuing declines in hardware sales, with desk tops and laptops, comping down 16%, and the category overall, which then includes monitors, printers, all-in-one machines and digital cameras, was down 12% in the quarter. Our total technology sales, which two years ago were about 22% of our sales, have now dropped to be 14% of our sales, reflecting the last two years of difficult comps in this technology sector. BSG sales grew 4% during the quarter. Sales improved for our contract division across all regions quarter to quarter, but was offset by some continued softness in our Office Depot and our Viking catalog domestic business. The average order value in our business BSG business improved for the first time in six quarters, another encouraging sign of a small recovery in the large and medium customer segment. And our domestic E-commerce business, here in North America, grew 37%. International comp sales were 4% in local currencies. Japan and Viking catalog both had negative comps during the quarter. Excluding those two countries, international comps were 7% for the second quarter. And we had improved trends in Germany, the U.K., Netherlands, Italy and Ireland. On a consolidated operating basis, our operating profit increased 15% to $92.7 million, versus $80 million in 2001. Our quarter two North America retail operating profits grew 35% and achieved its highest return on sales since the first quarter of 2000. That does exclude the $12 million estimated charge we took for the settlement of the California wage litigation suit that was outlined in our press release. Our BSG operating profit was up 10% to 8.1% of sales. International division operating profit was flat reflecting the entry of two new countries, Spain and Switzerland. Four new Office Depot BSG startups in Europe, and continuing losses in Japan. And in spite of that, this division still achieved 12.5% of sales of operating profit. Our consolidated gross margin grew 27 basis points overall, primarily all in North America retail. I'll talk about the gross profit in each of the business segments. Our BSG and international gross margins had both slight decreases. BSG down 192 basis points. That's the inclusion of 4Sure.com, not in the numbers last year, improved inventory management, meaning our purchasing from key suppliers is less than planned, which affects our vendor rebate programs. And international was down slightly as a result of higher retail sales mix and a growing BSG mix in Europe, and an increase in prospecting, which are lower margins in some key countries as we ramped up our efforts to grow new customers successfully. The key operating drivers of operating expansion and retail were margin improvements and our -- and, again, another quarter of improvement in BSG selling and operating costs, which in the quarter improved 234 basis points. On a consolidated EPS basis, on a fully diluted GAAP reporting basis, EPS grew 29% to 18% for the second quarter, compared to 14 in the second quarter of last year. As you know from the release, included in the operating income this quarter, is a one-time charge of approximately $12 million or two cents per share for the anticipated settlement of a class action lawsuit in the state of California alleging that Office Depot incorrectly classified its retail store managers and assistance store managers as exempt from the payment of overtime hours worked in California. As you've seen in news recently, this is not unique to Office Depot. Excluding these one-time litigation charges, EPS grew 25% to 20 cents, versus 16 cents for the second quarter, and on a year-to-date basis, EPS has now grown 52%, to 50 cents versus 33 cents in 2001, reflecting the improvements we've made in the operating performance at Office Depot. Now I'll speak briefly about performance in each of the key segments. The North America retail sales, as I said earlier, we had another consecutive quarter of comp sales improvement. Our supply sales, our core office supply sales, continue to show improvement with positive comps during the quarter. Our second quarter product mix furniture was down 1%, overall, as I said, technology/hardware was down 12% versus 13% in Q1, a small improvement, and software was slightly up in quarter two. Our average ticket size, in spite of the increased transactions in the stores, and increased traffic actually declined, reflecting the impact of lower furniture sales and lower technology sales. We in the quarter, we converted our 12 Canadian Ontario Providence stores to Office Depot, and we experienced a lift in revenue since that conversion. We now have the right for the first time in our history for the Office Depot name throughout Canada. 3 THOMSON REUTERS STREETEVENTS | www.streetevents.com | Contact Us ©2020 Thomson Reuters. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Thomson Reuters content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Reuters. 'Thomson Reuters' and the Thomson Reuters logo are registered trademarks of Thomson Reuters and its affiliated companies. JULY 17, 2002 / 12:00PM, ODP.OQ - Q2 2002 Office Depot Earnings Conference Call We are converting more of our customers who come in to our stores to buyers than ever before and a result in the second quarter, in that regard, were quite encouraging. As I said earlier, our customer service index is measured by our customers. Our customers today are giving us feedback in two primary ways. One at the register and one when they walk out of the store, was up substantially from year-ago levels. North America retail operating profit was up 180 basis points in the second quarter, a 35% increase, excluding the litigation charge. As I said earlier, that's the highest operating profit performance in our North America retail stores since the first quarter of 2000, in spite of negative comp sales of 1%. Our retail margins continue to improve our gross margins this quarter, by 185 basis points over last year. That's primarily a shift away from technology, the continuing benefits of our remerchandising which we've talked about numerously, better SKU management and quicker sale-through of our clearance merchandise which results in less markdowns. Our store operating costs, excluding the California litigation costs, improved slightly from last year. That's a result of better controls on merit increases and the nonanniversarying of some of the merchandising initiatives we implemented during the second quarter of 2001. On the BSG side, our total sales, was, as I said earlier, increased 4% for the second quarter. Our contract division has positive growth in the second quarter, showing some signs of recovery in the economy in all of our regions. Our western region still has negative sales growth where we've been most impacted by the slowdown as a result of the dot-com blowups but it improved over the first quarter. We still expect this division to continue to improve throughout this year as we focus on this segment to grow. Our second quarter revenue per order was higher this quarter than in any quarter during the past five quarters. Our average order size is improving, another small sign of an improvement in this sector. As I said earlier, our domestic E-commerce sales, which are in this business segment, grew 37% for the quarter and continue to grow our industry leadership position. Our warehouse customer service indexes were up across all categories. Our service level up, our on-time delivery up, our customer complaints were down, our call centers performed better than ever as a result of our consolidation last year from 24 to 7, and our customer complaints in the second quarter dropped 45% in the second quarter a year ago in the business segment. Our operating profit basis in this segment, our second quarter operating profit improved by 42 basis points from 7.7% last year to 8.1% in this quarter. Our second quarter gross margins declined in this segment 192 basis points. As I mentioned earlier, that is primarily the result of the inclusion of 4Sure.com, which wasn't included in the these numbers a year ago, some short-term pressure on vendor rebate in key suppliers in this segment, as we've improved our inventory turn in this channel to the highest in the industry. Our second quarter selling and operating expenses were down 234 basis points in this quarter. Again, reflecting the improvement in quality that we've now had consistent in this segment for well over a year. Our DSO in this segment improved again from 51 days to 46 days, and you can see these improvements in turns and our DSO as reflected in our strong cash position at the end of the second quarter, and our growing free cash flow position as we focus on managing our business more effectively and more efficiently. From an international perspective, based on first quarter trends, we saw some improvement internationally during the second quarter. Second quarter sales internationally in U.S. dollars grew 12%, again, a little bit from the benefiting of the currency in June in particular. Second quarter comp sales and local currency were 4% and 9% in U.S. dollars. As I said earlier, foreign currency translation benefited us in this quarter by a positive impact of about $15 million in sales and positively impacted operating profit in this segment by about $2 million in the quarter. On a year-to-date basis, however, foreign currency translation still negatively impact sales by about $5 million, and now are about neutral on an operating profit basis. Our contract sales startups in our new countries are all still meeting or exceeding our initial plans, and each of the four countries we have these new divisions. As I said earlier, we had two countries, internationally, Viking Catalog France, and Office Depot Catalog in Japan, both comp negative in the quarter, and overshadowed somewhat the improvement we saw in the rest of the countries. Our retail comps in France where we decided to make a major position in retail grew 5% in local currency and 11% in U.S. dollars. Our Office Depot business in France, which includes retail, catalog and the launch of a new BSG division grew 19% in local currencies against the very difficult economic environment in France. Our retail comps in Japan were negative 10% in local currency and negative 14 in the U.S., continuing to reflect the softness in the overall economic condition of Japan. And in Japan, during the quarter, we opened two new stores, closed one store, bringing a total of twelve stores in Japan. On 4 THOMSON REUTERS STREETEVENTS | www.streetevents.com | Contact Us ©2020 Thomson Reuters. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Thomson Reuters content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Reuters. 'Thomson Reuters' and the Thomson Reuters logo are registered trademarks of Thomson Reuters and its affiliated companies. JULY 17, 2002 / 12:00PM, ODP.OQ - Q2 2002 Office Depot Earnings Conference Call an operating profit basis, operating profits in this quarter were flat as planned year over year, but still 12.5% of sales. And as I said earlier, this reflects our commitment to continue to invest in this high return on sales, high RONA business, as we grow this business for the future. Two new countries so far this year, Spain and Switzerland. Startups in four new countries in DSD and plans to open another additional country late this year and probably one next year as well. Gross margins slightly declined by 91 basis points in the quarter, mostly the result of a higher mix of DSD and retail business, and a higher prospecting percentage of our business in our key European countries to grow our business. Store and warehouse operating costs only increased by 51 basis points in spite of the startup costs of Spain, Switzerland and the DSD units, all of which lose money in their initial startup period of time. Our Japan losses improved on a year over year basis to 1.5%, $1.5 million operating loss during the second quarter, compared to $2.5 million operating loss in the first six months of last year in spite of negative growth. As we get our arms around Japan and drive that country for efficiency and profitability. Our operating margins have been impacted, as I said, by the addition of new countries, and in the second quarter, for example, we absorbed more than $6 million of operating losses as we grow our business for the future. We have, as you all know, the most successful international business of anyone in our segment. We have been overseas since 1990. We know how to make money. We're investing this business, and these losses that we absorb today will, we believe, turn into substantial profits in the future, and in spite of some of the issues and the concerns about the economy, we're optimistic about our position in Europe. In summary, looking towards the remainder of 2002, based on all we know today, we remain comfortable with consensus earnings of $1.02. That implies that our second half EPS will grow close to 15%, and for the full year, close to 30%. The slower half, second half of EPS growth, is now anniversarying the substantial improvements we made in the second half of last year. We expect retail -- North America retail sales in the low single digits for the remainder of the year with some improvement or higher in the fourth quarter. We believe there'll be some improvement in both technology as a result of the HP Big Band launch, which is HP's largest launch ever of new printers, technology and ink, and we have and remain to be a destination store for HP products, and we believe we can grow in that segment. We also anticipate a back-to-school season that is slightly better than last year in our forecasts. In the BSG group, we expect mid to single-digit growth rates in quarter three, with higher growth in quarter four as we focus our growth in the higher-business segment, and we've successfully proven so far this year that we're able to do that. Internationally, we expect double-digit currency growth, low double-digit currency growth, in the second half in local currencies. Reflecting on the quarter, as I said in the beginning, in spite of the negative comps in North American retail, we continue to make substantial improvements in our business. Our margins overall are strong, sustainable. Our operating costs have trended positively now for some period of time, we're executing better than ever in our history, and today, we believe we have a solid foundation to grow this business in the future. If you allow me to reflect for a moment, tomorrow is my second anniversary as the CEO of this Company. I celebrate my two years. Our Company during that period of time has dramatically changed. Together with the leadership team we've built, we've transformed this Company's culture to one of focusing on customers, employees and shareholders. Two years ago, I said our primary goal was to gain the trust and confidence of the people who work with this Company, to improve the retention and the quality we provide service to our customers, and to gain the trust and the confidence of shareholders. This is our eighth consecutive quarter of meeting or exceeding consensus estimates. I said two years ago that we would build an executive leadership team that we could be proud of, that could help grow our business. We're primarily done with that. Most of them in the room are with me today, and I'm proud of what they've accomplished. We established a solid foundation. We have integrity, trust, and confidence in our balance sheets, our numbers, our cash flow, our balance sheet has never been in better condition, now in particularly in light of our decision to call the alliance. All of you saw Greenspan's speech yesterday, and he talked about a crisis of confidence. I can assure you there's no crisis of confidence at Office Depot and the integrity of our numbers, the soundness of our balance sheet. We've accomplished a lot in two years, we've closed underperforming retail stores, we've improved our warehouse quality and efficiency. We were the first to rationalize new store growth, and we continue to invest in Europe. We now have a platform to grow here in North America. We believe we've identified ways in which we can grow, that are not impulsive, but are well planned and we believe with our confidence, we can execute those plans, albeit in a difficult economic environment. We've identified new customer product verticals across all channels here in North America. In retail, we have new formats being tested, new in-store small business services and we're using and introducing technology to deliver on our promise, what you need, what you need to know. We continue to invest, to grow our large customer DSD segments. We think there's an opportunity 5 THOMSON REUTERS STREETEVENTS | www.streetevents.com | Contact Us ©2020 Thomson Reuters. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Thomson Reuters content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Reuters. 'Thomson Reuters' and the Thomson Reuters logo are registered trademarks of Thomson Reuters and its affiliated companies. JULY 17, 2002 / 12:00PM, ODP.OQ - Q2 2002 Office Depot Earnings Conference Call to gain share in that segment by focusing the improvements we've made in our warehouses, our costs to acquire, our customer profitability, and we are confident we can grow in this segment. Internationally, we continue to stay the course. We invest not only for the future but at the same time we deliver industry-leading impressive results on return on net assets, return on working capital and return on sales. We believe there is not a crisis of confidence at Office Depot. We're focused on the things to make this a better company, our employees have told us it's a better place to work. Our customer indices have never been higher. We face a difficult economic environment, the last four or five weeks, certainly of the stock market and the capital markets, bringing the question, "what's the economy going to be like both domestically and internationally?" We're confident of our ability to execute. I don't think there's ever been a better time to invest in Office Depot. Kind of a summary of the results of the quarter and my comments, what we'd like to do now is open up the call for your questions. QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS Operator Thank you. At this time, if you'd like to ask a question, please press star one on your touch-tone phone. You will be announced prior to asking your question. To withdraw your question, press star two. Once again, to ask a question, please press star one. Bruce Nelson - Office Depot, Inc. - Chairman, Chief Executive Officer Operator, are you still there? Operator Yes, one moment. We're waiting for questions to register in our queue. Bruce Nelson - Office Depot, Inc. - Chairman, Chief Executive Officer Thank you. Eileen Dunn - Office Depot, Inc. - Vice President Invetor Relations, Public Relations Operator? Operator One moment, ma'am. Your first question comes from Matt Kassler. Matt Kassler Thanks a lot, good morning. A couple of questions if I could. First of all, given that you now have some clarity as to your financial situation, do you know what you're planning to do with the [INAUDIBLE] and you have a very substantial cash position and continue to generate substantial cash, and given that the stock has come under some pressure, are you contemplating, or would you contemplate any kind of share purchase activity? 6 THOMSON REUTERS STREETEVENTS | www.streetevents.com | Contact Us ©2020 Thomson Reuters. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Thomson Reuters content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Reuters. 'Thomson Reuters' and the Thomson Reuters logo are registered trademarks of Thomson Reuters and its affiliated companies. JULY 17, 2002 / 12:00PM, ODP.OQ - Q2 2002 Office Depot Earnings Conference Call Bruce Nelson - Office Depot, Inc. - Chairman, Chief Executive Officer Thanks, Matt, good morning to you. The good news in the sense that's it's good, I say the good news, it's certainly mixed news. We're not the only stock that's been substantially revalued in the last couple of months. We do have an authorized buy-back of stock that was authorized by our Board some time ago, and that authorized buy-back was $50 million. We have been on a planned gradual buy-back of that stock, and we're about 2/3 through with that buy-back. I think, we've said all along, and I continue to say all along, that our goal is to drive RONA. We've demonstrated in the last two years, we've done that in spite of very low growth world wide. And one way or another we'll increase the RONA. Ideally, what we'd like to do with that cash is to grow our business. And as I said earlier, we've spent the better part of a year and a half or two years, building a foundation which I'm confident we can grow on, including selectively look at opportunities to acquire. The LYONS redemption that we just announced, has the impact of acquiring basically 13.9 million shares. And so in some respects, it's a buy-back of shares by the redemption of LYONS that we've called. Our Board, myself and our management team, are focused on driving RONA. And having said that, cash has to generate returns. We have, we think, some exciting opportunities that could require some cash in the future. They're retail formats that I spoke earlier about. Customer product category segments. But we clearly identify opportunities to grow. We've got plans to grow, we're not prepared to talk about how we're going to do that. But we believe we can identify uses of our cash that grow this Company's top line, grow its bottom line and grow RONA, and that's what this management team is committed to do. And I might add, a year ago, this management team with shareholder approval, took a very different view about stock and options and how we get paid as executives. And the conclusion is as follows: if we outperform a selected group, a large selected group of companies, we do well, as a management group. If we don't outperform, and that's on shareholder value, we don't do so well. So we're driven per shareholder value, and that means we have to clearly always look at how we use cash. Matt Kassler So not to put words in your mouth, but to kind of summarize, it sounds like -- it sounds like you want to keep your powder dry for strategic uses of cash? Bruce Nelson - Office Depot, Inc. - Chairman, Chief Executive Officer I think the summary I want to keep my powder dry. There are growing opportunities to look, frankly, I think the readjustment of the capital markets, readjust valuations of opportunities. I've said all along, I believe there are opportunities, particularly in Europe, where we have an incredibly strong base, a very strong management team and a strong platform and we continue to look and evaluate those. And I'd like to be in a position always of, if opportunities come forward, we're in a position to compete, and on that basis, I want to keep my powder dry, if you look at it from that perspective. Matt Kassler Gotcha. Second question, if I may. Just looking at the income statement, one line that was different from my expectations was corporate GNA, where as a percent of sales, I believe, you rose from about 4.2% to 4.8% and you had risen in the first quarter as well. There's also sequential dollar increase. Can you talk a bit about what's happening on that line item and whether we should expect continued year-to-year increases in the corporate GNA numbers? Bruce Nelson - Office Depot, Inc. - Chairman, Chief Executive Officer From our perspective, we look at GNA two different ways, Matt. We first of all, look at our core GNA, what's happening with the core employment base in GNA, what's happening to that growing, and I can tell you that without question, that's well under control. The GNA is influenced by the startups in particular, because that's where we put the, that's where we put a lot of the costs, and we've opened two new countries so far this year. We've got DSD starting up in four countries, we've announced a new one. Actually, Italy starts up in a month or two, and we're also starting to occur some costs as we announced the German startup of DSD. 7 THOMSON REUTERS STREETEVENTS | www.streetevents.com | Contact Us ©2020 Thomson Reuters. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Thomson Reuters content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Reuters. 'Thomson Reuters' and the Thomson Reuters logo are registered trademarks of Thomson Reuters and its affiliated companies. JULY 17, 2002 / 12:00PM, ODP.OQ - Q2 2002 Office Depot Earnings Conference Call We've got part of our, part of our, corporate-wide bonus system is based on our ability to achieve EPS objectives. We are on track to achieve a higher bonus payout corporate-wide. I'm not just talking to executives, I'm talking about for the people on bonus systems around the world. We're on track to achieve higher levels of bonus payout than a year ago, based on the fact that at $1.02, we'll have grown EPS this year, somewhere near 30%. That implies higher bonus payout, that's in the GNA cost. And, third, without quantifying, I'll tell you that we've invested in some strategic projects. We've taken a look at customer product growth opportunities, we think we've identified some very interesting things, and that's got a short term impact on GNA growth. We will continue our investment internationally. Part of the GNA is a percentage [INAUDIBLE]. When revenue does not grow as planned. overall, then the GNA looks higher as a percentage. But I can assure you, that we're not wasting our GNA dollars. On our core processes, I think we've been a leader in the use of the Internet to take costs out of our business in routine, more routine jobs, and then we turn around, invest for growth in the future. I can't emphasize this well enough. We don't have an environment where we demonstrate our ability to grow. I want you to know we've invested an enormous amount of time, and we believe we have a platform now to grow, and that leads to future shareholder value. So I hope I answered your question, Matt. I hope I wasn't too defensive about it. But I believe the investments we've made will have payouts in a huge way in the future to our shareholder value and our ability to grow the Company top line. Matt Kassler Okay, thank you. Bruce Nelson - Office Depot, Inc. - Chairman, Chief Executive Officer You're welcome. Operator Your next question comes from Daniel Bender. Daniel Bender Good morning. Bruce Nelson - Office Depot, Inc. - Chairman, Chief Executive Officer Hey, Dan. Daniel Bender A couple of questions for you. First off, on just store closures, how many more should we expect this year, if any? Bruce Nelson - Office Depot, Inc. - Chairman, Chief Executive Officer I don't anticipate any more than we've announced. I've said all along with a portfolio of stores of 860-plus in North America, we'll always have openings, closings, but in terms of material closings, we said that we would close 14 more this year. We're on track to do that. I don't anticipate any major change in that direction. Albeit, at any one point in time, when a store comes up for remodel, and we are for renewal, and we have some later this year, we could make a decision on a store due to close, but materially, we're not closing any more stores than we've announced. 8 THOMSON REUTERS STREETEVENTS | www.streetevents.com | Contact Us ©2020 Thomson Reuters. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Thomson Reuters content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Reuters. 'Thomson Reuters' and the Thomson Reuters logo are registered trademarks of Thomson Reuters and its affiliated companies. JULY 17, 2002 / 12:00PM, ODP.OQ - Q2 2002 Office Depot Earnings Conference Call Daniel Bender Okay. Great. Other question related to -- I guess the sensitivity of your EPS to, let's say, a percentage point in comp store sales, your margins have been obviously moving up, and it's been probably a little bit tougher for some of us to determine what a deviation in comps, up or down, would have on it as an impact on your EPS. I was wondering if could you give us any sense of that? Bruce Nelson - Office Depot, Inc. - Chairman, Chief Executive Officer I think directionally, you can still make a broad assumption that a 1% change in the North America retail comps equates pretty close to a penny. One of the things that we've been able to demonstrate, your point, Dan, is that we have been able to adjust a lot of our variable costs to track more in line with comp sales growth. And should we experience some pressure on comp sales growth in the second half, I think there's some ability we still have in our variable cost structure, but I think we've been pretty good now demonstrating two years, but directionally, you have to assume that a 1% change in North America retail costs is about a penny a share. Per quarter. Daniel Bender Okay. And in the back half of this year, it sounds like you're continuing to look for sequential improvement in the rate of comp store sales gained at retail, although those are against, I guess, slightly more difficult comparisons last year in the back half versus the front half, and I guess with all that said, it sounds like most of the pressure has been in technology and furniture, and I'm just curious, do the comparisons in technology and furniture get easier as we move through the remaining part of this year? Bruce Nelson - Office Depot, Inc. - Chairman, Chief Executive Officer It's somewhat easier, but I think our optimism, and I would say our cautious optimism for a moment, in our North American retail business, is really focused on a couple of areas. One, is we do think that we'll see some lift in technology in our retail stores, and by technology, I mean basically laptops, desk tops and all-in-one machines and printers. I think all of you've seen that HP is launching their biggest launch in their history. Some 50 different SKUs over the second half of the year, both new technology, better technology at lower price, and we believe we've always been an HP destination. Frankly, HP has always been our largest single supplier worldwide by quite some margin. We believe that these products will sell. We've got some early signs they are. And we think that's going to give us some lift in the second half of the year. I think second of all, we anticipate a slightly bit of back-to-school season this year, not dramatically better, but still an improvement over last year. We did pretty well last year, we think we've got some specific plans in place, both for products and promotion, if you will, that we believe, we remain confident today that will have a little uptick in our back-to-school. To the extent that there's an indication of that, our contract business, which has a clearer segment in back-to-school this time of year, has got a good order booking. This is stuff that's in the house that will shift this quarter to next quarter. That's part of the lift we're getting in BSG. So it's those two assumptions that we think we're going to get, we're going to turn the chain on comps to positive in the third quarter, and a little more positive in the fourth quarter. We're also putting a lot of emphasis on the holiday season. We've always been a destination for holiday purchases of businesses, and we've got some exciting things we're planning for that, and I appreciate in light of the overall economic concern of both the U.S. and the world, you say what does all of that mean, and frankly, Dan, at this point, I don't know. I just know what we're doing. And I remain confident that we'll execute it well, and I think there's some uptick here. Daniel Bender Okay, just a last question, in your press release, you do cite that you're testing multiple new retail formats, so obviously you wanted us to know that. I'm just curious if you can give us any more detail on what that involves? 9 THOMSON REUTERS STREETEVENTS | www.streetevents.com | Contact Us ©2020 Thomson Reuters. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Thomson Reuters content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Reuters. 'Thomson Reuters' and the Thomson Reuters logo are registered trademarks of Thomson Reuters and its affiliated companies. JULY 17, 2002 / 12:00PM, ODP.OQ - Q2 2002 Office Depot Earnings Conference Call Bruce Nelson - Office Depot, Inc. - Chairman, Chief Executive Officer No, I won't. Daniel Bender Okay. Bruce Nelson - Office Depot, Inc. - Chairman, Chief Executive Officer This is the age-old issue in retail. I guess one day I'd like to -- I'd like to have the culture and the history of Southwest Airlines. Where they'll tell you a year in advance where they're going to go, how they're going to do it, when they're going to do it, at what price they're going to do it, and not a competitor in the world can seem to match it with that kind of advanced knowledge. We're not at that point yet at Office Depot in our retail business. I think similar tests some work, some don't. Frankly, we're excited about some aspects of it, but we're not ready to extend specifics to it, because the minute we do that, it turns into well, how much cost is that going to that be, and when's that going to be, and how many are you going to add? I just want to leave all of you with this is a business that we, in North America retail that we do not consider dead. While you might argue there is saturation of some stores in some markets, and I wouldn't argue against that, this is a business segment that's $285 billion big, and our share of it's very small, and there are customer product categories in which we enjoy a decent share of the customers we target. We believe there's a whole growing share of customers that we don't. And we think we've identified some ways to reach them. I think the proof's in the pudding, and I'll wait until we can report increased comps, increased growth and then tell you more specifically how we did it. I just want to leave you with the solid foundation that this is a company that's spent a couple years now building a foundation, and I think it's in place. And I think now we can start to do better things to grow our North America retail business. Daniel Bender Great, thanks. Operator Your next question comes from Aaron Robinson. Aaron Robinson Hey, I think that's me. Bruce, I hope the next two years is as prosperous as the first two. I had a quick question. The BSG number looked like it ticked up a little bit and the gross margin ticked down a little bit. I'm not sure if you explained it, but are those two related? In other words, is pricing down, therefore, some elasticity is getting increased market share, and then I had one follow-up. Bruce Nelson - Office Depot, Inc. - Chairman, Chief Executive Officer Okay, thanks for your wishes for the next two year term as well. I hope it is as well. This has been the most exciting thing I've ever done, frankly the most rewarding thing I've ever done. It's something I'm most proud of, the team that's helped build it, so if you'll allow me those personal comments in the midst of a "crisis in confidence in America". Your second comment is, are those things related, growth in BSG and margin, and the answer is, no. Our core BSG margins actually grew slightly in the quarter. There is an impact with the vendor programs, inventory turns are well ahead of what we thought. What that means without going into enormous amount of detail, is that we now face the risk of some key vendors of not hitting their maximum rebate levels as a result of total volume purchases. And good, conservative accounting says that you recognize that at this point in time. And so, there is pressure short term on 10 THOMSON REUTERS STREETEVENTS | www.streetevents.com | Contact Us ©2020 Thomson Reuters. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Thomson Reuters content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Reuters. 'Thomson Reuters' and the Thomson Reuters logo are registered trademarks of Thomson Reuters and its affiliated companies. JULY 17, 2002 / 12:00PM, ODP.OQ - Q2 2002 Office Depot Earnings Conference Call supplier rebates, and that's impacted in the totals. Second, as I said earlier, there's a mix issue, 4Sure.com was not in our numbers last year. This is a lower margin business model that we believe speaks to how people buy technology when they bought their second or third piece of it. They don't go to a store. They want specific help, and we invested in this business by acquiring it a year ago. We are optimistic about where it goes, and we're encouraged by its -- by its new direction or its uplift. So, no, this is not related. I do think if we get more successful in the larger segment, and I believe we will, I think that's a mix issue, and I think you'll see then on a mixed basis our margins come down a bit, because the reality is, larger accounts have lower margins. That is true. But that's not the case in this quarter. Aaron Robinson Follow-up, as far as the retail business is concerned, how are you going about merchandising back-to-school given the mix shift from consumer to business? How do you get your merchants, I guess, into a consumer mode and make sure they come out of that consumer mode once this thing is done and to what degree are you working back-to-school versus last year? Bruce Nelson - Office Depot, Inc. - Chairman, Chief Executive Officer Those are complex questions, some of which are answers, but I'll wait to see unfold when you walk into the store and see our back-to-school set. First of all, I would say -- I don't know, I think that back-to-school in North America retail both for us and our competitors has an awful lot to do with consumers and not as much to do with business. I mean, if you look and profile the customer, I think we get an awful lot of consumers in our store, for back-to-school, at least we do. I know by demographics we do. Frankly, our goal is to bring them into the store this year, delight them with the product selection, delight them with the complete school list for their school, delight them by giving back 5% of their purchases to their school of choice, which has been an enormously successful promotion, and delight them with service so they say, "Hey, I'll come back to Office Depot in the future for some of my quote consumer home office individual needs." So that's one thing. Two, is I think our merchandise selection this year for back-to-school, it's assortment and it's display, from my perspective and my eyes, and appreciate those are the eyes of the self-serving, CO of the Company, are better than last year. I've seen the back-to-school set in our store, it's out earlier, and I like it better. I think the product selection is better, I think the graphics are better, the signage is better, the flow is better. And, three, we're going to selectively -- back-to-school is always a competitive period. You're already seeing signs of it being competitive in terms of early advertising of it. But we think our in-stock position, our product breadth and assortment, our 5% back is going to drive traffic into our stores and our hope is that traffic gets impressed so much, they come back later. So there is some optimism we have in back-to-school in that regard. It's not huge, but we're saying it's going to be better than last year. Aaron Robinson Thank you very much. Bruce Nelson - Office Depot, Inc. - Chairman, Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Aaron. Operator Your next question comes from Peter McMullen. 11 THOMSON REUTERS STREETEVENTS | www.streetevents.com | Contact Us ©2020 Thomson Reuters. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Thomson Reuters content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Reuters. 'Thomson Reuters' and the Thomson Reuters logo are registered trademarks of Thomson Reuters and its affiliated companies. JULY 17, 2002 / 12:00PM, ODP.OQ - Q2 2002 Office Depot Earnings Conference Call Peter McMullen Good morning. Two quick questions. One, with all of this talk about options, I just wondered what your philosophy going forward might be, and, two, as you sit today and look at '03, what major factors would you have us focus on in determining, you know, some sort of hurdle rate for next year? Thank you. Bruce Nelson - Office Depot, Inc. - Chairman, Chief Executive Officer Your first question on options, Peter, is one I think, we have an upcoming Board meeting. I intend to have this discussion, we've had it. We've broken out, according to the guidance of the regulations, if our options were expensed last year using the methodology that we put in our annual report, that would have the 12-cent EPS impact. I think the whole issue of options, who gets them, how many they get, in light of the current economic environment means we have to take a look at it. I can tell you that this Company has not abused that. It's not given mega-grants to executives. None of us that are here today have gotten enormously rich on options. Our option program is clearly in line with industry. Our total options in terms of total dilution are well below the upper-third core tile, we're more in the middle of what companies do. We go deep with our options. That I'd like not to avoid. We give options to store managers. I know that's sometimes contrary to shareholders viewpoints, but to a store manager that works in North America, option grant's a big deal, and I'd like to be able to keep something like that in place. We put a new option program in place last year with new performance standards that are clearly performance-based, and they're based on this management dream driving shareholder value. One of the issues I have with all of the legislation, is an over reaction to some companies that have had excessive greed and have violated both the integrity and trust of the investors, and we deal with that. This Company's done neither of those things. We've not restated, we don't have to restate. We don't have mega-option grants. I think the whole issue of what we do is a good discussion for a Board to have. I'm not prepared to talk about what that might be, because I think it's dialogue and discussion. And second, I think you have to look at the environment that's external. And whatever the law is, we'll comply not only to the letter of the law, we will comply to the spirit of the law. And that's been our objective all along, as it relates to all three, I think as you look at all three, I think the overall issue is what's the forecast for the overall health of both the North American and the global economy. We're still a business that has impact by economic benefits. We'll continue to make into '03, I think, smaller, gradual improvements in our cost structure. We've gotten huge costs out of this Company in two year, we've gotten efficiency. It's harder to continue to get it. We find ways to drive processes better, faster and more efficiently, we'll continue to do that. But I think when you look at '03, you've got to make large assumptions about how the Company grows. Because if the world economic environment or the North American one deteriorates and gets worse, then I think this Company, along with most others I know, will have difficulty growing EPS and growing shareholder value in the next year given the economy. So I think you say our margins are sustainable? I know there's always been questions about, is the gross margin we've got sustainable? Well, we've got five, six quarters at it, so I hope you believe they're sustainable. We've said that we'll get gradual improvements in our cost structure. Are they sustainable? We've got five, six quarters of it? I think soon we'll get some more. We've said we'll invest for growth in the international that will pay. Some of our investment growths a year and a half ago are paying handsomely today, so I think that's kind of the outlook for '03. I think it's overshadowed, if you will, not by what this Company can do and execute, because it will, but the external environment, which right now seems uncertain at least for most people who look at it. I'm not an economist, but what happens globally in the next year and a half, will have an impact on our next year's results, obviously. Peter McMullen Thank you. Bruce Nelson - Office Depot, Inc. - Chairman, Chief Executive Officer Thanks, Peter. 12 THOMSON REUTERS STREETEVENTS | www.streetevents.com | Contact Us ©2020 Thomson Reuters. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Thomson Reuters content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Reuters. 'Thomson Reuters' and the Thomson Reuters logo are registered trademarks of Thomson Reuters and its affiliated companies. JULY 17, 2002 / 12:00PM, ODP.OQ - Q2 2002 Office Depot Earnings Conference Call Operator Your next question comes from David Young. David Young - Bernstein Hi, David Young at Bernstein. A couple of questions. Can you comment on, given that your Internet sales now make up over 50% of the BSG group sales, can you just comment on the relative profitability of your Internet business versus the other BSG businesses? Bruce Nelson - Office Depot, Inc. - Chairman, Chief Executive Officer Yeah, first of all, the Internet business, it comes from multiple channels. It's in the BSG. It's our total Internet business, in that, as officedepot.com, which is the public site and BSG Net, which are the private sites for our contract, commercial customers. By definition, all Internet transactions of Office Depot cost us less than any other transaction, period. And that number's approximately 1%, 2%, depends on how you calculate it, from a call center costs, from a fax cost, from a phone cost. Two is, our Internet business has always been profitable at Office Depot on a fully allocated cost basis it is fully integrated. It has never been a separate business. We've always looked at it as an enabler. An order in a North American warehouse, which we have 24, for an Internet, for a fax, for a phone, for a contract sales rep order, for an order placed in retail for delivery is all of the same to a North American warehouse. They can't tell the difference. So it has all the metrics of every other order, and so we continue to say it's an enabler. Our objective is to make it the best site of sites in the land, to make it easier on the contract commercial side to convert. We have more third party conversions in our contract business than anybody else, bar none. We're easy to convert for private side and commercial contract business. Our officedepot.com site has always been profitable. We have never chased customer acquisition at insidious rates. We do it smart, we do it wisely, we use E-mail wisely, but it is not a separate business, it's an enabling part of our business, and it continues to grow, and we believe it will become an even higher percent. On the BSD side, the contract side, over half our transactions today come through the Internet, and we think that will continue to grow. David Young - Bernstein I see. So you don't measure separately from profitability standpoint? Bruce Nelson - Office Depot, Inc. - Chairman, Chief Executive Officer No, we don't. Because that's -- that's a channel conflict inside the Company. David Young - Bernstein I understand. Bruce Nelson - Office Depot, Inc. - Chairman, Chief Executive Officer There's no reason to do that, because we share the platform, the technology, the skill base, the analytical base, the front-page, back-page, middle-page, software interface across all channels, across all companies, and we do it worldwide. Our engines are the same on the back end of these things. Our front ends are customized. 13 THOMSON REUTERS STREETEVENTS | www.streetevents.com | Contact Us ©2020 Thomson Reuters. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Thomson Reuters content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Reuters. 'Thomson Reuters' and the Thomson Reuters logo are registered trademarks of Thomson Reuters and its affiliated companies. JULY 17, 2002 / 12:00PM, ODP.OQ - Q2 2002 Office Depot Earnings Conference Call David Young - Bernstein Are the 4Sure.com numbers included in the Internet numbers that you quoted, that growth number? And if so, how much did it impact the growth? Bruce Nelson - Office Depot, Inc. - Chairman, Chief Executive Officer The answer is, I don't know the answer to that, David. We'll get that answer for you. Off the top of my head, I don't know that. David Young - Bernstein Okay. Bruce Nelson - Office Depot, Inc. - Chairman, Chief Executive Officer We'll come back to you on that regard. David Young - Bernstein A couple of minor questions, housekeeping questions, what are the planned store openings for the year? Bruce Nelson - Office Depot, Inc. - Chairman, Chief Executive Officer 23 to 25 new stores. David Young - Bernstein Okay. Bruce Nelson - Office Depot, Inc. - Chairman, Chief Executive Officer We're on track to do that. David Young - Bernstein Okay. And the last thing is, then, you might have commented on this in the first quarter, and I apologize if I didn't catch it, what was the reason for the share count increase? Bruce Nelson - Office Depot, Inc. - Chairman, Chief Executive Officer I'm going to let Charlie Brown, Charlie, the CFO, is by my side. I'm pretty sure I know the answer, but I want to make sure it's the right answer, so I know Charlie knows the right answer, so, Charlie? 14 THOMSON REUTERS STREETEVENTS | www.streetevents.com | Contact Us ©2020 Thomson Reuters. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Thomson Reuters content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Reuters. 'Thomson Reuters' and the Thomson Reuters logo are registered trademarks of Thomson Reuters and its affiliated companies. JULY 17, 2002 / 12:00PM, ODP.OQ - Q2 2002 Office Depot Earnings Conference Call Charles Brown - Office Depot, Inc. - Chief Financial Officer The number of shares that was really influenced by option exercises, we had, as a stock, increased during the first and second quarters, we had a large number of employees who exercised their stock options. David Young - Bernstein I see. OK. That's the increase in the basic share count? Charles Brown - Office Depot, Inc. - Chief Financial Officer The second basis, remember when the stock does go up and more options are in the money quote unquote, higher numbers of shares outstanding go in the share outstanding calculation, and we had a rising stock price, substantially rising stock price through the first quarter of this year. David Young - Bernstein Okay. Thank you very much. Bruce Nelson - Office Depot, Inc. - Chairman, Chief Executive Officer Thank you. Operator Your next question comes from David Asasio. David Asasio Hi. I jumped on the call a little bit late, and I may have missed this earlier. I was hoping you could discuss a little bit your motivations behind calling your LYONS. Bruce Nelson - Office Depot, Inc. - Chairman, Chief Executive Officer I'd be delighted, David, to discuss the motivation behind calling the LYONS. And I'm going to turn that one over to Charlie as well, Charlie Brown, the CFO of Office Depot, Charlie? Charles Brown - Office Depot, Inc. - Chief Financial Officer Well, the, probably the origin of thinking of calling our options, really had to do with constantly looking at our debt structure. As we go out and look at potential acquisitions, the LYONS really become cumbersome, because, you know, there's the uncertainty of will they or will they not convert? That's probably the first consideration. The second, is that where our share price is currently, and, you know, depends on what our outlook is for the full year, there's a highly likelihood that these options will be [INAUDIBLE] to us in December. But at some extent, what we've done is really accelerate that and cleaned up our debt structure a little bit to give us a little more flexibility, and that's really the reason behind it. 15 THOMSON REUTERS STREETEVENTS | www.streetevents.com | Contact Us ©2020 Thomson Reuters. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Thomson Reuters content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Reuters. 'Thomson Reuters' and the Thomson Reuters logo are registered trademarks of Thomson Reuters and its affiliated companies. JULY 17, 2002 / 12:00PM, ODP.OQ - Q2 2002 Office Depot Earnings Conference Call Bruce Nelson - Office Depot, Inc. - Chairman, Chief Executive Officer I would add to that that given our dramatic improvement in free cash flow, our growing cash balance, which this quarter approached $1 billion, our continued belief we can continue to manage the balance sheet well, we think that it is a good use of cash at this particular point in time given the price of the stock and the strike put price of the option which can be put to us late this year. And as I said, then it adds to the other things about balance sheet, reduce debt, and so we look at it as saying it's a good use of corporate funds at this point to do that, based on what happened in the capital markets, and particularly within the last month or two. David Asasio Okay. Thank you. Bruce Nelson - Office Depot, Inc. - Chairman, Chief Executive Officer You're welcome. Operator Your next question comes from Brian James. Brian James When the LYONS get called, what does that do to interest expense and what does it do to number of shares outstanding? In fully diluted? Charles Brown - Office Depot, Inc. - Chief Financial Officer The number of shares, I think as we mentioned in the press release is about 13 - 14 million shares that will essentially come out of the EPS calculation. In terms of interest rate, these are 5% convertibles, so essentially, what we're getting a little bit of a negative arbitrage between what we're paying versus the interest income that we're earning, which is just under 5%. But given where interest rates are currently, it's essentially a break-even. Brian James Okay. Thank you very much. Operator Your next question comes from Whitney Pilson. Whitney Pilson Hi, two questions. You referred earlier to the competitive environment and the back-to-school season. I was wondering if you could just speak more broadly about what the economic slowdown is so forth, are you seeing a worsening of the competitive environment for you? And second question is, can you give a little background on why your primary internal evaluation metric is RONA as opposed to return on equity or return on invested capital? 16 THOMSON REUTERS STREETEVENTS | www.streetevents.com | Contact Us ©2020 Thomson Reuters. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Thomson Reuters content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Reuters. 'Thomson Reuters' and the Thomson Reuters logo are registered trademarks of Thomson Reuters and its affiliated companies. JULY 17, 2002 / 12:00PM, ODP.OQ - Q2 2002 Office Depot Earnings Conference Call Bruce Nelson - Office Depot, Inc. - Chairman, Chief Executive Officer I'm going to answer the first question. I'm going to have Charlie answer the second question on RONA. Yes, we will tell you. No, I dont' think we've not seen a worsening of back-to-school at this point. We've not seen a degration of pricing at this point in time. We've just seen early on, earlier advertising of back-to-school. Back-to-school really doesn't start the first flight from our perspective, starts the last week of July. We realize the country goes back-to-school at very different times, and it starts the last week of July and flows through almost into September. It's a complicated system, by the way, to figure out when you advertise back-to-school and what region or locality. What we're seeing right now from the competitive arena, is that early advertising of back-to-school, which, in our perspective, is two, three weeks early. But it isn't focused on price. It appears to be focused on, we've got to come in and see it, get your back-to-school early. So I don't know what the price environment's going to be. I can always, there's always three or four, five items, particular items that mass retailers decide to highlight and drive traffic in. I mean, that's just always the way it is. We would anticipate that would occur this year, and have anticipated that. But, no, I don't think we've seen a change in the environment, just a little surprise that we've seen advertising, and I would say the form of the advertising, if it's in ROP, that won't mean much to some of you, but that's more expensive than inserts, and it's means you've reacted quicker. So it looks to me like it's going to be an advertising early game on pricing, it's hard to say what it's going to be like. Charlie, on the RONA versus the return on equity? Charles Brown - Office Depot, Inc. - Chief Financial Officer Mathematically, those two metrics work out to be essentially the same, it's just a question of how you compute them. We like RONA, because what we're able to do, we can't do with return on investment capital, is break down the drivers on RONA to think that are meaningful to our operators. These are things like DSO, these are things like inventory turns, and by breaking it down to that level of granularity, what we can do is engage the entire Company in driving returns as opposed to just the executive groups sitting around and talking about return on invested capital. So for us, RONA is really, it's a living, it's a breathing, a concept, and, again, we can take it down to the store level or into our call centers or into our warehouses, and that's why we like it. Bruce Nelson - Office Depot, Inc. - Chairman, Chief Executive Officer We can take RONA to a store manager level, which we do, because there's some things a store manager has control of, and there's some things they don't. And when you get return on equity, there's an awful lot of things a retail store manager has nothing to do with return on equity. Charles Brown - Office Depot, Inc. - Chief Financial Officer They really can't relate to it. Bruce Nelson - Office Depot, Inc. - Chairman, Chief Executive Officer They can't relate to it, but they can relate to RONA and over time these two things track pretty closely, anyway depends on how you calculate them. So we've chosen RONA as a way internally to align 45,000 people to what you really have to do, when it's all said and done, to drive shareholder value. And you have then some impact clearly. Bob Keller, who runs our North America delivery business, has a huge impact on RONA on how much capital he wants to put in warehouses and how many -- what his receivables are. He doesn't have a huge impact on whether we choose to finance it, that equity, you know, with interest to it, but it's not in his level. RONA and investment is, and that's true for other business unit operators as well. So we've gone through this argument a lot in our Company and we've settled on we think it's easily -- more easily communicated, more easily understood and people, like store managers, can clearly understand their role in it. So that's our perspective on RONA. Whitney Pilson Thank you. 17 THOMSON REUTERS STREETEVENTS | www.streetevents.com | Contact Us ©2020 Thomson Reuters. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Thomson Reuters content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Reuters. 'Thomson Reuters' and the Thomson Reuters logo are registered trademarks of Thomson Reuters and its affiliated companies. JULY 17, 2002 / 12:00PM, ODP.OQ - Q2 2002 Office Depot Earnings Conference Call Operator And your last question comes from Derek Weiner. Derek Weiner Yes, hi. There seems to be some confusion on the call price for the converged for the LYONS that you're calling. I believe it's in the press a couple of different ways. Could you clarify what the call price is, is it an accreted value since the 74,355 that would have been in December? Bruce Nelson - Office Depot, Inc. - Chairman, Chief Executive Officer Yes, it is at the accreted price and would be 1,753. Derek Weiner 74,355 was the December price. What would the price be of the call? Bruce Nelson - Office Depot, Inc. - Chairman, Chief Executive Officer $17.53. Okay. It's actually the accreted value as of August 19th, I think, which is the end of the window. Derek Weiner But it would be something greater than $74? Something greater than $74.355? I don't understand the -- Charles Brown - Office Depot, Inc. - Chief Financial Officer Yeah, I don't have that calculation. Eileen Dunn - Office Depot, Inc. - Vice President Invetor Relations, Public Relations If you'll call us back after the call, we'll go through that calculation with you. Derek Weiner Okay. Simplistically speaking, to account for interest between August 19th, from the 74,355 on December 11th, is that correct? Charles Brown - Office Depot, Inc. - Chief Financial Officer Yes, it would be with the accrued interest at that point in time. Derek Weiner Right. I think you needed to clarify that in the press. 18 THOMSON REUTERS STREETEVENTS | www.streetevents.com | Contact Us ©2020 Thomson Reuters. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Thomson Reuters content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Reuters. 'Thomson Reuters' and the Thomson Reuters logo are registered trademarks of Thomson Reuters and its affiliated companies. JULY 17, 2002 / 12:00PM, ODP.OQ - Q2 2002 Office Depot Earnings Conference Call Charles Brown - Office Depot, Inc. - Chief Financial Officer Okay. Thank you. That's a good suggestion. Derek Weiner Thank you. Operator At this time, there are no further questions. Bruce Nelson - Office Depot, Inc. - Chairman, Chief Executive Officer Okay, thanks again for taking your valuable time to listen to Office Depot. I hope we've clearly articulated and summarized both our confidence in our ability to execute, eight continuous quarters of meeting or exceeding what we outlined we would do. Saying what we do and then doing it, is how you gain trust and credibility, having pristine financial statements, financial reporting and a balance sheet is about what we're about, and then growing our business is where this group is focused. We spent two years refining, improving, getting a solid platform. We believe we're in better shape today than ever, both from an executive leadership team and knowledge of our customer and product segments that we think we can wisely invest for growth in the future. Thanks for listening. Thanks for your confidence in Office Depot. We look forward to talking to you on our mid quarter update, which we'll do towards the end of August, which will then give you more insight into the current trends of quarter three. Thanks very much. Operator You may disconnect your line. Your conference call has concluded. DISCLAIMER Thomson Reuters reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes. In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized. THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON REUTERS OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS. ©2020, Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved. 646332-2020-07-15T11:23:23.847 19 THOMSON REUTERS STREETEVENTS | www.streetevents.com | Contact Us ©2020 Thomson Reuters. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Thomson Reuters content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Reuters. 'Thomson Reuters' and the Thomson Reuters logo are registered trademarks of Thomson Reuters and its affiliated companies. JULY 17, 2002 / 12:00PM, ODP.OQ - Q2 2002 Office Depot Earnings Conference Call
