REFINITIV STREETEVENTS EDITED TRANSCRIPT COF.N - Capital One Financial Corp at Goldman Sachs Financial Services Conference (Virtual) EVENT DATE/TIME: DECEMBER 08, 2020 / 7:20PM GMT REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS Richard D. Fairbank Capital One Financial Corporation - Founder, Chairman, CEO & President CONFERENCE CALL PARTICIPANTS Ryan Matthew Nash Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - MD PRESENTATION Ryan Matthew Nash - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - MD Right. Up next, we are pleased to once again have Capital One join us. Capital One has come into the pandemic position better than most as it had managed credit in a tight manner, built out industry-leading technology and was on a journey to see significant efficiency improvement. While it's built significant amounts of reserves in the downturn, we don't think much of that has changed, and we expect it to leverage the significant investments it's made to drive efficiency gains over time and has built a significant excess capital position, which we think will position the company to return it over time. Here to tell us more about where we go from here is Chairman and CEO, Rich Fairbank. Today's discussion is going to be a fireside chat. Rich, Danielle, thank you once again for joining us, as always. Richard D. Fairbank - Capital One Financial Corporation - Founder, Chairman, CEO & President Thank you, Ryan. It's great to be here. And yes, Danielle Dietz is with me here as well. QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS Ryan Matthew Nash - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - MD Awesome. So Rich, maybe just to start off, can you give us a sense of what you're seeing in -- from the U.S. consumer? You recently noted that this has been the biggest disconnect in the 30 years you've been doing this between the economy and the performance of the consumer but that could reverse itself in a significant way if things went in a certain direction. So based on what you know as of today, what you're seeing, where do you think we go from here? And how important do you think further stimulus is to the ultimate outcome for the consumer? Richard D. Fairbank - Capital One Financial Corporation - Founder, Chairman, CEO & President So thanks, Ryan. And Ryan, I don't know how many years you and I have been doing these together. It's our first that's not in person. Ryan Matthew Nash - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - MD 11. Richard D. Fairbank - Capital One Financial Corporation - Founder, Chairman, CEO & President 11? Wow, we'll keep our streak going in that. Thanks, everyone, for joining us today. So this is certainly an extraordinary thing that we are observing. And as someone that built a company or the founding idea that was so linked to how we can leverage technology and information to win at credit, we're seeing things we just haven't seen in all those years. So I think the U.S. consumer is demonstrating some really exceptional resilience. And 2 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 08, 2020 / 7:20PM, COF.N - Capital One Financial Corp at Goldman Sachs Financial Services Conference (Virtual) it's important to remember that consumers went into this downturn in considerably better shape than last time with lower debt levels; lower payment obligations, thanks in part to lower interest rates; a higher savings rate; and not a lot of structural issues in the economy or the housing sector, things like that. The thing that I so often point at is a defining sort of root cause of so many of the different things we're seeing this time around is the abruptness and intensity with which this downturn took off. And it took off for consumers, it took off -- the consumers, the government, the lenders all went in this down elevator all at the same time. And all the participants in that had some very dramatic reactions that came out of that, that have contributed to some of the unique things that we've seen. So we certainly saw consumers react quickly and cautiously when the pandemic began. And almost immediately, they went into the trilogy of behavior. We've seen this trilogy before, but the magnitude was so significant: spending less, saving more and paying down on debt, especially revolving debt. And for us, that shows up in lower purchase volumes, higher payment rates and more deposit inflows. We, of course, also saw widespread forbearance programs across the banking industry and unprecedented consumer support through government stimulus. And the cumulative impact of the consumer balance sheet of lost wages, sort of offset by government support and lower spending, has been a pretty electrifying thing to look at and, by our tally, is a positive net consumer "savings" effect of well over $1 trillion or $10,000 per U.S. household. Now of course, the circumstances of individual consumers and the households are highly variable, and we're talking here about totals and, therefore, averages. But a significant part of the CARES Act stimulus expired after July and the rest runs out at year-end. And this, of course, is adversely impacting many, many unemployed Americans. If we don't see the renewed stimulus, especially strong unemployment benefits, some of these favorable effects that we've seen will likely wear off in the coming months, leaving a lot of consumers in an exposed position, and that risk is reflected in our allowance choices. And the pandemic itself has been getting worse over the past few months, which also could have new adverse effects on the economy and consumer resilience. But if we pull way up, I think what makes this downturn so different from others is that unlike descending into the downturn on little cat feed over many, many months or even years, we all went into free fall sort of at the same time. All the parties had a really strong reaction. Governments were able to mobilize stimulus on a per month basis that's never been seen before. And we are seeing, therefore, the great disconnect. Our allowance reflects a resumption to things that are a lot more normal. Every month that we continue to enjoy the strong credit trends, we're getting closer to the other side of this and reducing the cumulative losses through the downturn rather than just delaying the impact. Ryan Matthew Nash - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - MD Thanks for all the color there, Rich, and I'm going to come back to credit in a second. But if you just think about what you've seen now in the consumer, you talked about saving and paying down debt. At the bottom, purchase volume was down over 30%, and then it came all the way back to basically flat. Can you maybe just update us on the purchase volume trends you're seeing in your business? And has there been any fundamental shift in customer behaviors over a -- within the last couple of months as the pandemic has unfolded? Richard D. Fairbank - Capital One Financial Corporation - Founder, Chairman, CEO & President So year-over-year purchase volume growth rebounded through the third quarter. You all could see that in our metrics. And the run rate sort of hit low single-digit growth by the end of the quarter, and customers have increased their spending from the very low levels of Q2. But even with that rebound, purchase volume growth is still well below the double-digit increases we saw earlier this year. So I think sometimes people, when they look at Capital One data, they then say purchase volume is back. It's flat year-over-year. We were running at double digit -- low double-digit increases so it's really not, in a sense, at least looking at Capital One data, fully back from that perspective. You asked what's been happening lately, and we're all watching carefully the overall holiday spending trends, we've seen some noise and a little softness around Black Friday. But I think the noise is the bigger point I would make than the softness point. But if anything, it has been a little soft. And I think intuitively, it's logical that consumers might not spend as much as usual with nowhere to go and limited access to even family members and extended family members to see. So I think it's quite plausible that holiday spending will be light because of the pandemic. I don't think that 3 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 08, 2020 / 7:20PM, COF.N - Capital One Financial Corp at Goldman Sachs Financial Services Conference (Virtual) would necessarily be a negative indicator about the health of the consumer, but it might be more of a byproduct of the quarantine life that we're all living. But if anything, the very earliest signs would be consistent with a little softness there. Ryan Matthew Nash - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - MD Got it. And if you think about credit performance, which you highlighted before, in the card business, I would have never expected 9 months into a pandemic to see losses down almost 50 bps year-over-year last quarter and I think about 80 last month. Delinquency is down over 150 basis points year-over-year. And the auto business continues to put up extraordinary performance. But as you highlighted, with risk of further stimulus, the pandemic getting worse, there's still a lot of uncertainty there. So do you have a better sense, at least for the range of outcomes now that we've gotten these announcements regarding the vaccine, of what this will ultimately look like from a credit perspective? Richard D. Fairbank - Capital One Financial Corporation - Founder, Chairman, CEO & President So the metaphor, after all these years, I would probably think by -- sometimes I find the most simple metaphors are the most telling. But I've used this metaphor, Ryan, of picture unemployment rate and the economy that's behind that as a mountain, and we go up to a big spike in the mountain, and then go down the other side of the mountain and return over time to normal. As you know, in general, over the decades that I've been in this business, industry credit card loss rates have not only sort of followed the unemployment rate by coincidence, they've been almost numerically the same. And so it is really bizarre to see these diverging the way that they are. But the metaphor I use here is from a credit loss point of view, we're burrowing through the tunnel, we're burrowing a tunnel through this gigantic mountain of unemployment. And what's unclear is, do we continue to burrow horizontally through this with the extraordinary performance or do things turn and the consumer rapidly return to where they are on the mountain. I think one could argue any of those outcomes is plausible. The important thing is with every month that we burrow through this, we're, I think, lowering the cumulative impact. I think it's less likely that there's sort of a big retroactive impact from the parts of the mountain that we have avoided. So I think the vaccine -- the interesting thing about the vaccine is the virus itself created an unusual and not seen before entry into the downturn. Interestingly, the vaccine on the other side may create a unique exit to the downturn because, usually, consumers have to pick themselves up by their bootstraps and get their confidence back and all this stuff. And you saw how long that took after the global financial crisis to sort of get all that mobilized. With a vaccine coming here, I think there is a chance for confidence returning in a more sudden way than you would typically have. By the way, none of that is reflected in our allowance because our allowance is reflective of the great uncertainty and the extraordinary pressures that the economy is suffering, and we'll just have to see over time how these things play out. Ryan Matthew Nash - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - MD Got it. Well, we'll save the reserve release questions for the next earnings call. But maybe to just bring it home to Capital One, Rich, a big thing that you spent years talking about was the choices that you made heading into the downturn: avoiding high-balance revolvers, cautious on lines of credit, amongst other things. How do you think -- we obviously live in a relative world, how do you think these impacts -- these things will impact the ultimate outcome? And what do you think it means for Capital One's performance versus the industry? Richard D. Fairbank - Capital One Financial Corporation - Founder, Chairman, CEO & President We can't really speak to the results of our competitors, although I will say that, over a lot of years in this journey, I've looked with skepticism at some of the underwriting that some of our competitors have done, and sometimes those things have come to roost in downturns. I think, and I've been saying for some years before the downturn, I think the industry, and if I calibrate versus the other credit markets that we're in, I think the major players in the card business are very rational. They have underwritten soundly and rationally. And so I think all of us are benefiting from some sound underwriting practices as well as the real assist from the government and from consumers. 4 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 08, 2020 / 7:20PM, COF.N - Capital One Financial Corp at Goldman Sachs Financial Services Conference (Virtual) Let me talk just a little bit about Capital One because you indicated we have taken some unique approaches. We've always believed that the choices you make during the good times are the most important drivers of how you perform in the bad times. And that's why we managed down our concentration of, we call them, high-balance revolvers. But another way to put it is just consumers with a lot of debt, with a lot of particularly revolving debt, they tend to perform very well. And one gives -- it leaves a lot on the table. They tend to perform very well in the good times. They just have a lot less resilience that we have found. And that's -- so we have continued to minimize our exposure to high-balance revolvers. We've also done a unique thing to structure some partnership deals with loss sharing, and we have also been cautious with credit lines. And you may remember, Ryan, over the last couple of years, we have increased the amount of times we were mentioning we're being particularly cautious this deep into the credit cycle. So it reduced our asset growth but improved our resilience. So what we're finding right now -- and my dog is here agreeing with me, I better get us out there -- everybody's got a point of view on where we are right now. But what -- if you look at our metrics, we have had, sort of relative to other card issuers, the most year-over-year improvement, in fact, a bizarre thing, even up to the last month, showing some increased improvement over last year in certain credit metrics where, even seasonally, they're supposed to be turning the other way. So I think some of this is just the benefits of some of the extra conservative choices that we have made. But we'll have to see how things play out in the rest of the downturn, but we feel very well about how we're positioned. And I think it puts us in a position to lean into some growth opportunities also, which I'm sure, at some point, you'll ask about. Ryan Matthew Nash - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - MD That was very good telegraphing because I was about to ask about it right now. Rich, if I kind of reflect back, you went from decisions that you made that led to growth that was probably a little bit slower than the industry at low single-digit shrinking, and now we're lapping some tougher comps with the Walmart addition and the portfolio shrinking low to mid-teens. So as you sit here today, while I know Capital One never targets specific amounts of growth, what do you need to see to open up underwriting for loan growth to return? And maybe can you just talk about -- you mentioned earlier about the rationality of competition, maybe just talk about what you are seeing on the competitive side. And are you and competitors starting to come back into the market for customer acquisition? Richard D. Fairbank - Capital One Financial Corporation - Founder, Chairman, CEO & President Yes. So remember, I said all 3 parties went down the down elevator at the same time, not knowing where this elevator was going to stop, those parties being consumers, government and lenders. And the consumers have had sort of an unprecedented and immediate conservatism in their behavior. The government was able to mobilize, on a per month basis, an amount of stimulus never seen before and -- I'm just letting my dog back in here. And the lenders all pulled back pretty dramatically at the start of the downturn. We certainly did. I think what's happened in the marketplace is -- and each lender doing it in a different way and each lender is pursuing their -- each lender has a bit of a different strategy in targeted segments as well. Everybody is starting to return more toward where things were before. I don't think anyone is fully there. But you see, after marketing spend was way down, it's starting to go up a little bit. Origination volumes, mail volumes, these various things are starting to turn. For us, it's not a binary thing like we're either in or we're out. What we have worked so hard to do, and we do this in every downturn, is look for unique opportunities, especially on the origination side of the business, that look safe but allow us to really keep the origination machine going. Our conservatism is mostly on the credit lines that we grant and the choice of line increases, but we tried to keep the origination machine going as prudently as we can. And as the pandemic and downturn have unfolded, we have increasingly found some safe areas for growth, especially in originations. And that's why we've also signaled the significant increase in marketing. Now these originations don't show up immediately in outstandings growth because that's really more about when the option value of those originations shows up in future line increases. But really important to us is keeping the underlying machine going. And I think we've been able to do that off the really strong credit base that we have, been able to increasingly lean into that and that will be very helpful down the road. 5 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 08, 2020 / 7:20PM, COF.N - Capital One Financial Corp at Goldman Sachs Financial Services Conference (Virtual) Ryan Matthew Nash - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - MD Rich, you just noted the expectation for a pickup in marketing in the fourth quarter, I think you said a significant sequential increase that is driven by both seasonality and the full quarter effects of increases in domestic card marketing, which is consistent with what we just talked about. Can you maybe just dig in a little bit further and talk about what some of the drivers are, what decisions you're making right now to determine the ultimate magnitude of that? And are we beginning -- well, you're not expecting to see balances accelerate because that could come over time given the low and grow strategy, but could we begin to see an acceleration in customer acquisition that could drive growth over an intermediate time frame? Richard D. Fairbank - Capital One Financial Corporation - Founder, Chairman, CEO & President Yes. So the original drop in the economy and the extremeness of the pandemic led us to pull back on pretty much everything, tightening credit policy, pulling back even a lot on the origination machine. So there was quite a brownout period for a number of months as we took stock on how things were going to settle out. Since then, we have been working really, really hard to identify those opportunities for growth, and we look at the business in many, many segments but by pulling out a magnifying glass and looking at the nature of whether we're getting positive or adverse selection in a particular segment over the transom with the new business, looking at the competitive environment. And also, at the same time, another factor, Ryan, that is increasingly helpful is as we are getting farther in our tech journey, the ability for more big data, real-time driven underwriting has -- is kind of coming into the fore right now as well. And out of all of this, we found a growing number of origination opportunities even while still other parts were tighter than usual. But we're leaning into those opportunities, and the marketing is also a reflection of that. Ryan Matthew Nash - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - MD Got it. So to shift gears a little bit, Rich, during the first half of 2019, you set an operating efficiency target to highlight the progress you've made in a lot of these digital and tech journey to improve the profitability. And this improvement, which I think you dubbed as 42% in '21 was withdrawn during the onset of the pandemic, but then you brought it back a quarter later with no timetable attached to it. So maybe a 2-part question, first, with the Walmart revenue step-up and the transition out of data centers set to happen this quarter, can you talk about the drivers of reaching the goals from here, revenue versus expense? And then second, I know at this point, there's no public timetable on the goal, but given the backdrop, like, can you give us sort of a framework to think about a realistic goal in terms of timing? Or what will we need to see to reach that goal? Richard D. Fairbank - Capital One Financial Corporation - Founder, Chairman, CEO & President Yes. So our journey of improving operating efficiency has been an ongoing journey of 5 or 6 years. We had a bit of a setback. The pandemic set us back a bit on that journey. But let's pull up and talk about what are the drivers of the operating efficiency improvements we've been able to enjoy over the last 5 or 6 years. And powered by the tech transformation and the continued improvements in underwriting and innovations at Capital One, we saw a growing -- we have found continued growth opportunities, and the revenue side of the business has been a very important driver of the efficiency. And essentially, we've been able to grow costs slower and the revenue has grown sort of year after year. As we -- around the time of when we were talking about 42% by '21, we were looking ahead to, really, an increase in some of the growth opportunities that we were looking at, unlocking some of the credit lines that we had held back and capitalizing on some opportunities that were very real and tangible to us. And so on the revenue side, and that was the particularly larger driver of the significant projection of efficiency improvement, we were counting on quite a bit of revenue growth. At the same time, we also had things in the works that would help on the efficiency side, most notably, the data center exit. So those drivers, like the data center exit, the Walmart step-up on the revenue sharing, that has proceeded sort of just as we had expected. The elephant in the room is the revenue is not, right now, what it was projected to be. But I look at this, and while we have pulled back on the timing of when we declare a certain destination, the underlying drivers of the ability to improve efficiency over time, the opportunity to drive 6 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 08, 2020 / 7:20PM, COF.N - Capital One Financial Corp at Goldman Sachs Financial Services Conference (Virtual) growth, the ability of our technology transformation to drive both growth opportunities, revenue opportunities and the opportunities to be more efficient, all of that is still the way it was before. So the only question now is timing. But we feel very good about how value is created over time by this company, particularly on the shoulders of our tech transformation. And we're just going to have to see a little bit on the timing. Ryan Matthew Nash - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - MD Got it. A couple more topics then, Rich, you rolled out a national banking campaign, I think it was last year, and it contributed to significant growth in customer deposits, although stimulus has clearly been a big chunk of that more recently. Do you have a sense for how much is being driven by stimulus versus company initiatives? And when you think about the strategic positioning of the bank, you referred to, I think, it was the bank in the middle: digital savvy but with a physical presence, has the pandemic changed your view of how that should look over the longer term? Richard D. Fairbank - Capital One Financial Corporation - Founder, Chairman, CEO & President So we've had a tremendous growth in deposits, and a big driver of the success has been the government support and consumer savings. But I think our national banking strategy has also been a significant driver of growth, enabling us to reduce pricing while still generating a lot of volume. And for years, we have developed and scaled our hybrid model of digital direct banking with thin physical distribution. The pandemic has not altered the destination of where consumers are going. In fact, I think it's been strongly confirmatory of that. But the primary impact, I think it has accelerated their journey. So this is a favorable trend for Capital One, and we continue to go all-in on our strategy. Ryan Matthew Nash - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - MD Got it. Rich, can we maybe talk a little bit about the auto business? This has been a major bright spot. I think you had 11% year-over-year growth. You've talked about some of the digital investments you've made there as well as some client segmentation you've done. How do you expect the performance, from a growth perspective, to evolve over the rest of the pandemic? Second, what are you seeing with auction prices? And how do you expect all the dislocation in the auto market to inevitably pan out for the health of the asset class over the intermediate term? Richard D. Fairbank - Capital One Financial Corporation - Founder, Chairman, CEO & President Let me talk a little bit about the market and then talk about Capital One. The auto marketplace, from a lending point of view, has certainly been a positive one in this pandemic. You had manufacturers dialing back their volumes, so there was less pressure from the captives. The used car pricing has been celestial, really unbelievable. And the credit performance, auto has benefited from the credit performance of consumers that we've talked about earlier in this conversation. So that has been, I think, a good market for everybody in the auto business. Now I think all the auto players, Capital One included, dialed back somewhat just as the pandemic unfolded. We have another thing going on in the auto business, though, that has been the continued traction of our digital strategy. We have invested heavily in real-time underwriting. We've built the Auto Navigator product that can underwrite any car in America on any lot in a fraction of a second. And both on the consumer side and with respect to dealers, this has been a beneficial thing for generating extra volume and high-quality volume. So it's hard for us to separate the effects of the positive marketplace, the competitive dial-backs and Capital One's increasing traction with technology. But we have, even as we've sort of dialed back our credit policy, been able to generate some outsized growth. Here's what I observed now in the marketplace. Competitors are roaring back. I think we anticipate increased competition that will probably have -- that will make its way into impacting our growth metrics. But how this all plays out is hard to predict. But it is striking, if you just kind of pulled up and look at Capital One's Auto Finance metrics, since the pandemic began, you can barely see a pandemic because there's been a lot of strength in the marketplace and in our market position. 7 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 08, 2020 / 7:20PM, COF.N - Capital One Financial Corp at Goldman Sachs Financial Services Conference (Virtual) Ryan Matthew Nash - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - MD Maybe one last question, Rich. You've noted that capital return is an important part of the shareholder return. The Fed says that you need to run at about 10%. And clearly, once we get to the point of returning capital, you could be at 13%, 14%. I guess does this change the way at all you think about capital? And how should we think about managing that down over time? Richard D. Fairbank - Capital One Financial Corporation - Founder, Chairman, CEO & President So we have talked about an 11% target, and let me give you a few thoughts on this. The Fed set out our stress capital buffer at 5.6%. Combined with the 4.5% regulatory minimum, our capital requirement under the stress capital buffer framework is currently 10.1%, and we would expect to operate above that level in most environments. We also do our own stress modeling, which is a critical input into our capital targets. Pulling up, while our capital requirement under the SCB framework is 10.1%, we expect to manage the buffer above that in normal times and be running higher in the near term given the current capital distribution restrictions and overall heightened uncertainty. In terms of managing down to that level over time, obviously, the restrictions on capital distribution implemented by the Fed will prevent us from share repurchases for the remainder of the year. That said, given that we're running at over 13% CET1 capital and have a strong desire to resume share repurchases once the economic and regulatory environments permit, we are looking forward to finding the opportunity to distribute capital to shareholders because that's a very central part of our thesis. Barring any additional Fed actions, the SCB framework should allow us the flexibility to manage our capital distributions, including dividends and share repurchases on an ongoing basis, beginning as soon as the first quarter of '21. Ryan Matthew Nash - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - MD Great. Well, Rich, unfortunately, we are out of time. But on behalf of myself and investors, just wanted to say thank you, again, for all the thoughts. Have a nice holiday season, and we look forward to doing this, hopefully, again in person next year. Thanks again. Richard D. Fairbank - Capital One Financial Corporation - Founder, Chairman, CEO & President Ryan, I look forward to that. Thanks, everyone. And thanks for hosting this conference. Ryan Matthew Nash - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - MD Thanks again. Have a great holiday season, Rich. Take care. DISCLAIMER Refinitiv reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes. In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized. THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES REFINITIV OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS. 2020, Refinitiv. All Rights Reserved. 13537424-2020-12-09T02:50:10.840 8 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 08, 2020 / 7:20PM, COF.N - Capital One Financial Corp at Goldman Sachs Financial Services Conference (Virtual)
REFINITIV STREETEVENTS EDITED TRANSCRIPT TT.N - Trane Technologies PLC Investor Briefing EVENT DATE/TIME: DECEMBER 14, 2020 / 3:00PM GMT REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS Christopher J. Kuehn Trane Technologies plc - Senior VP & CFO David S. Regnery Trane Technologies plc - President & COO Michael W. Lamach Trane Technologies plc - Chairman & CEO Ray Pittard Trane Technologies plc - Former President of Transport Solutions - North America, Europe, Middle East & Africa Zachary A. Nagle Trane Technologies plc - VP of IR CONFERENCE CALL PARTICIPANTS Andrew Alec Kaplowitz Citigroup Inc., Research Division - MD and U.S. Industrial Sector Head Charles Stephen Tusa JPMorgan Chase & Co, Research Division - MD Christopher M. Dankert Longbow Research LLC - Research Analyst Deane Michael Dray RBC Capital Markets, Research Division - MD of Multi-Industry & Electrical Equipment & Analyst Gautam J. Khanna Cowen and Company, LLC, Research Division - MD & Senior Analyst Jeffrey Todd Sprague Vertical Research Partners, LLC - Founder & Managing Partner Joel Gifford Tiss BMO Capital Markets Equity Research - MD & Senior Research Analyst John Fred Walsh Crdit Suisse AG, Research Division - Director Joseph Alfred Ritchie Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - VP & Lead Multi-Industry Analyst Julian C.H. Mitchell Barclays Bank PLC, Research Division - Research Analyst Markus M. H. Mittermaier UBS Investment Bank, Research Division - Head & US Equity Research Analyst of Americas Electrical Equipment and Multi Industry Research Nigel Edward Coe Wolfe Research, LLC - MD & Senior Research Analyst Scott Reed Davis Melius Research LLC - Founding Partner, Chairman, CEO & Research Analyst of Multi-Industry Research Stephen Edward Volkmann Jefferies LLC, Research Division - Equity Analyst PRESENTATION Operator Good morning, and welcome to the 2020 Trane Technologies Investor Briefing. My name is Mariama, and I will be your operator for the call. This call will begin in a few moments with the speaker remarks followed by a 45-minute Q&A session. (Operator Instructions) I will now turn the call over to Zach Nagle, Vice President of Investor Relations. Zachary A. Nagle - Trane Technologies plc - VP of IR Good morning, and thanks, everyone, for joining us for Trane Technologies 2020 Investor Briefing. This call is being webcast on our website at tranetechnologies.com where you'll find the accompanying presentation. We are also recording and archiving this call on our website. Please go to Slide 2. Statements made in today's call that are not historical facts are considered forward-looking statements and are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of federal securities law. Please see our SEC filings for a description of some of the factors that may cause our actual results to differ materially from anticipated results. The presentation also includes non-GAAP measures, which are defined in the appendix of the presentation. 2 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 14, 2020 / 3:00PM, TT.N - Trane Technologies PLC Investor Briefing Please go to Slide 3. During this morning's event, we'll hear from Mike Lamach, Chairman and CEO; Chris Kuehn, Senior Vice President and CFO; Dave Regnery, President and COO; and Ray Pittard, our Transformation Office Leader. With that, please go to Slide 4, and I'll turn the call over to Mike. Mike? Michael W. Lamach - Trane Technologies plc - Chairman & CEO Thanks, Zac, and thanks, everyone, for joining us on today's event. You might recall at the beginning of the year, we targeted an Investor Day for 2020 that would have been longer and more traditional. But as the year has progressed, COVID-19 has been unrelenting and presenting the world with unprecedented challenges every step of the way. This volatility and lack of certainty is limiting our ability to provide long-term top line and, therefore, bottom line targets with the level of rigor that we and investors would expect. Rather than hold off on an Investor Day until we have that level of visibility, we wanted to shift the format a bit to a shorter, very focused investor briefing, spending a couple of hours on the areas that are directly in our control. These are the self-help actions we're taking today to make us a stronger company in any environment. We're excited about the briefing today because we have a lot to share about how we're transforming and reimagining Trane Technologies. After announcing the separation of our Industrial businesses, we knew we had a unique and timely opportunity to reimagine what Trane Technologies could be as a pure-play climate-focused innovator with an IPO start-up mentality. We established our transformation office led by our senior executive, Ray Pittard, who most recently ran our TK business and who is on the call with us today. We've shared some of the results, the stranded costs and other cost savings projects that are underway throughout the year. Today, we'll cover these and the other programs we've been working on to fuel innovation and growth and expand margins in more detail. I'll start with some overarching themes and key takeaways for the day. And then Chris, Dave and Ray will do a deeper dive. Let's turn to Slide 5 and the key messages I'd like you to take away from today's briefing. At a high level, we're focusing on 3 main elements that will fuel our success: sustainable innovation, execution excellence and structural transformation. The first thing you'll hear today is how customer-focused innovation is fueling our growth. Relentless high levels of business reinvestment and innovation and operational excellence are the essential engines that enable us to outgrow our end markets year after year and extend our leading market positions versus our competitors. We will continue to feed this engine which is at the core of our business operating system. The second message is that operational excellence, combined with our high-performance culture, reinforces and enables us to continuously improve our processes, driving lean principles into everything we do, leaner, faster, better, never sitting still and always improving. And third, structural transformation further unlocks our potential by solidifying our ability to deliver strong leverage and continuous margin improvement through a fundamentally improved cost structure for the company. Ultimately, our reimagining will drive $300 million in savings to reinvest in 2 key areas: First, heavy reinvestment and innovation in our business operating system to fuel continued market outgrowth. We have a strong track record of growing faster than underlying market conditions over the past several years. Additional reinvestments funded by transformation savings serve to further strengthen our ability to outgrow our end markets going forward. Second, fundamentally improving the long-term cost profile for the company, enabling us to improve incremental margins sustainably to 25% over the long term. For those of you who know us well, this formula for success isn't new. It's how we've driven differentiated shareholder returns over the years combined with a strong free cash flow performance and balanced deployment of 100% of excess cash. It's our framework for shareholder value creation. Before we continue on through the balance of the discussion and into the Q&A, I think it's important to be really clear about what we're hoping to achieve today. At the end of the day, rather than the ability to give you discrete margin percentages and growth rates, which is not something that 3 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 14, 2020 / 3:00PM, TT.N - Trane Technologies PLC Investor Briefing we can really do today in this environment, we want you to walk away with confidence that we'll outgrow the economy at large, outgrow our end markets and confidence that we will deliver on 25% operating leverage over the mid and long term. Turning now to Slide 6. I'm going to focus my comments in 3 key areas today, including the advantage of the Trane Technologies as a pure play and our priorities to unlock our full potential through transformation. Please turn to Slide 7. Let's start with our unique position. Trane Technologies reimagined has the essence and energy of a startup but with the benefits and credibility of a market leader with a proven track record. I look back at the energy and optimism of the team during our day 1 celebration for Trane Technologies. We took the position that we were the NewCo, we were the IPO, that we were starting up a brand-new company. And that empowered the team to purposefully decide on the strategy that we've defined Trane Technologies, everything from our organizational model and investment framework to our continued commitment towards diversity and inclusion and climate-focused innovation for our customers. Unlike a traditional start-up, we were able to build our new company on a strong foundation based on years of execution and deep customer relationships. The combination is powerful and our people see the opportunities ahead and are eager to seize them, making bottoms-up transformation a reality. In other words, the energy and optimism that we started with at the launch of Trane Technologies is even stronger today. Please turn to Slide 8. You may ask, why does being a pure-play matter? We've highlighted 5 reasons why being pure play matters, and I'll focus on 2. First, we'll continue relentless reinvestments to fuel market-leading innovation. Our purpose-driven strategy is 100% focused on driving sustainability. That means we're intent on bending the curve on climate change. Episodic investment, where a company may decide to increase investments for a year or 2 or 3 to drive growth, then decide to slow the rate of investments in favor of improved leverage and margins just won't be enough. We are committed to making a difference consistently, relentlessly over the long term. This unrelenting focus on innovation has been fundamental to our market outgrowth in recent years and is the path forward to how we maintain leading market outgrowth over the long term. Second, we've developed, refined and strived to optimize our business operating system over the past 10 years since we acquired the Trane HVAC business in 2008. It's a journey of continuous improvement based on lean principles, and it drives operational excellence into everything we do on a daily basis. We invest heavily in our business operating system year in and year out because we're always seeking ways to take our business operating system to the next level to further improve our ability to do 2 crucial things simultaneously: continue to improve our cost structure and margin profile and increase investments in innovation to further cement our ability to outgrow our end markets consistently. One of the strengths of the model is this exact framework with a choice to invest and a choice to cut costs to improve margins are not binary choices and far from mutually exclusive. To drive success for shareholders over a long period of time, you need to do both of these things well and consistently. Our business model is our secret sauce. It's highly evolved over 10 years, unique to Trane Technologies and embedded in our culture, making it impossible to replicate and formidable as a competitive differentiator in our industry. And as we'll discuss in more detail in the presentation, the reimagining and transformation of the company is a continued evolution of the maturation of our business operating system. It enables a step function improvement in our ability to continue to deliver innovation and growth and margin improvement simultaneously over the long term for shareholders. Turning to Slide 9. We're a diversified global climate leader with strong and growing aftermarket mix. Here you see the breakdown of our revenues by region showing the key revenue streams in each region. What's really important to note is that each of our segments has a mix of 30% or greater aftermarket, which makes our business more resilient in a downturn. In particular, Commercial HVAC aftermarket mix has grown approximately 10 points since the last downturn, reaching approximately 45% parts and service globally and nearly 50% parts and service in North America. We see opportunities for aftermarket mix in similar businesses in other regions to reach North American levels, and we see continued opportunities to grow North America aftermarket mix in the future with digital connectedness, remote monitoring and artificial intelligence just being a few of the opportunities I'd highlight. 4 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 14, 2020 / 3:00PM, TT.N - Trane Technologies PLC Investor Briefing Our strong aftermarket mix is a key advantage, making our businesses more resilient in a downturn, and we're clearly seeing the benefits through the COVID-19 pandemic in 2020 with stronger-than-anticipated market outgrowth and better than gross margin decrementals. Now let's turn to the strengths we're leveraging as a pure-play climate innovator. Turning to Slide 11, we'll talk about 2 key areas that differentiate Trane Technologies. The first is that we are the sustainability leader. We started this quest years ago, is core to our business strategy long before sustainable investing was in vogue. Our Gigaton Challenge and the entirety of our 2030 sustainability goals are a testament to our conviction and leadership in driving industry change. Turning to Slide 12. Global megatrends are a powerful tailwind for our business. The 21st century brings significant global challenges that all businesses, nation states and humans will face. The driving factor behind these challenges is a rapidly increasing rate of additional greenhouse gases emitted from human economic activity. This rate of additional greenhouse gas emissions is already outpacing the planet's ability to absorb and remove them to maintain a comfortable and stable climate for all life. Trane Technologies has an opportunity to dramatically reduce 2 major sources of greenhouse gas emissions: first, on the left of the slide, we can reduce emissions related to heating and cooling of residential and commercial buildings; and second, in the middle, we can continue to improve the global cold chain to reduce emissions related to food that decomposes before ever reaching market and safely deliver medicines and vaccines to save lives. The emissions from these 2 sources alone account for approximately 25% of global annual greenhouse gas emissions. Trane Technologies provides the suite of solutions to greatly reduce these emission sources while still surpassing our customers' expectations for best-in-class total cost of ownership, service and quality. Let's turn to how we're doing just that on Slide 13. We are uniquely positioned at the intersection of rapidly rising global emissions and the delivery of innovative solutions to dramatically reduce these emissions. In the chart on the left, you can see while emissions from HVAC and food loss accounts for 25% of greenhouse gas emissions today, that number is expected to climb to 35% by 2030. This is indeed a global crisis, and we intend to bend the curve on global warming, as you can see under the actions we are taking through accelerating the use of clean technologies, increasing the efficiency of our systems and transitioning out of high global warming potential refrigerants. Our intent with our market leadership position is to remove hydrofluorocarbons from systems. We have set a very aggressive goal, our Gigaton Challenge, to save 1 billion metric tons of CO2 for our customers by 2030, which is equivalent to 2% of the world's annual emissions. We're challenging like-minded companies to do the same and are encouraged to see others joining the movement. By setting bold goals and challenging what's possible for a sustainable world, Trane Technologies can help lead the world to bend the curve on greenhouse gas emissions. We believe one company can change an industry and one industry can change the world, and Trane Technologies is that company. We're proud to take the leadership role and to challenge what's possible for a more sustainable world. Please turn to Slide 14. Bending the curve on climate change is vital, but the benefits of our purpose-driven strategy are wide-ranging. First, our purpose powers our people and our culture. The research shows that people who believe in their company's purpose are 20% to 30% more likely to stay. And for some of the younger generations, that number is even higher. We see that firsthand and we've enjoyed best-in-class employee retention rates for over a decade. Even through the challenges of 2020, our overall employee engagement measured by our annual survey was again top quartile of all companies and actually improved from 2019. Particularly, pride in our company, up 2 points versus prior year; and excitement for the future, up 4 points versus the prior year. Our team has great pride in seeing the Trane Technologies purpose come to life, and that translates into empowerment, innovation and strong performance. Second, the financial benefits are clear, and I referenced many of them earlier when talking about the benefits of being a pure-play climate-focused innovator. Our business model is simpler. Our investments more targeted, and our execution is faster and more agile to meet the needs of our customers. The end result is more value across the board for customers, employees and for shareholders. As we execute our strategy, our performance has been widely recognized as highlighted on Slide 15. We're proud of our track record over the past several years. And this year, as we activate our more focused strategy as a climate innovator, recently, we were named the prestigious Dow Jones Sustainability North America Index for the tenth consecutive year and the first under the Trane Technologies name. We continue to learn from our external advisers, partners and rating agencies to take action to enhance our ESG performance. 5 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 14, 2020 / 3:00PM, TT.N - Trane Technologies PLC Investor Briefing Turning to Slide 16. One key element of our ESG performance is our work to enhance our workplace diversity and create an inclusive culture. We recently updated our diversity and inclusion strategy to align with our purpose and our 2030 sustainability commitments. In addition to our Gigaton Challenge and our commitment to be net carbon 0 by 2030, our goals also include achieving gender parity and leadership and to drive diversity and inclusion with a workforce that is representative of the communities in which we live and work. I encourage investors to look at our appendix for a summary of all of our 2030 sustainability commitments. In addition, we are a founding member of OneTen, a corporate-led coalition to hire 1 million Black Americans over 10 years while improving ongoing retention, development and advancement. To support these goals, we are working across the full value chain, where and how we recruit talent, how we develop and promote from within and how we hold our leaders accountable in creating opportunity for all. We are proud to engage alongside other leading companies in many important coalitions that share the same goals. And now I'd like to turn the call over to Chris Kuehn to discuss the second major strength we're leveraging. Chris? Christopher J. Kuehn - Trane Technologies plc - Senior VP & CFO Thanks, Mike. Please turn to Slide 17. In addition to our sustainability leadership, a second key differentiator for Trane Technologies is our culture of performance excellence, which has delivered top-quartile financial performance and differentiated returns for shareholders. Turning to Slide 18. To illustrate my point, let's revisit the Investor Day we held in May of 2017 where we laid out bold 3-year financial targets. Evaluating our performance through 2019, we delivered top quartile performance and significantly exceeded our top line, bottom line and cash flow targets, with Climate segment organic revenue growth of 8%, nearly doubling our 4.5% target; and adjusted earnings per share growth of 19%, exceeding the high end of our EPS target range by almost 50%. We also delivered free cash flow of 106% of adjusted net earnings over the period; and cash flow ROIC exceeded our target, reaching 27% in 2019. Please turn to Slide 19. Let's briefly take a closer look at the underlying performance on our 4 key metrics. Revenue growth was clearly a standout. Consistent with our strategy, we significantly outgrew our end markets and peers over the period, reflecting relentless innovation from unyielding high levels of business reinvestment for over the past decade. In addition to strong revenue and EPS growth and free cash flow conversion, we also had solid EBITDA margin expansion over the past 2 years of 90 basis points. Margin expansion was a significant opportunity for us at the last Investor Day in 2017, and it remains so today. As Mike discussed at the outset, our primary objective of the reimagining of Trane Technologies and our business transformation is to drive stronger leverage and improving margins consistently over the long term. With strong financial performance and powerful free cash flow, let's take a look at how we've deployed the cash. Turning to Slide 20. You can see we have a strong track record of maintaining a disciplined and balanced capital allocation strategy that deploys 100% of excess cash over time, which is aligned with our Board and our long-term investors. Over this period, we deployed $7.7 billion of capital to 4 main priorities after maximizing reinvestment dollars into our core business. One area that I'd like to highlight that we're really excited about and I think maybe underappreciated in the marketplace is M&A and the portfolio management of 22 acquisitions totaling $2 billion that we've made over the period. We have developed an excellent track record integrating acquisitions into our portfolio, company culture and back office, led by capable management in our business units and corporate teams, including technology acquisitions where we're taking leading technology and seamlessly integrating it into our product portfolio and world-class sales channels across the globe. As part of our business operating system, we performed look-backs on acquisitions at the 12-, 24- and 36-month mark post-acquisition. Let me provide 2 examples from recent look-backs. We completed the acquisitions of Arctic Chiller and ICS Cool Energy in the period. The first added modular applied chiller solutions to the company, and the second expanded our HVAC rental services in Europe. These 2 acquisitions are performing very well and are delivering, on average, cash flow ROIC in excess of 40%. 6 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 14, 2020 / 3:00PM, TT.N - Trane Technologies PLC Investor Briefing Additionally, I'd highlight, we've continued to invest heavily in share repurchases with $2.9 billion invested over the period. Share repurchases have remained a good use of cash as the shares have continued to trade below our calculated intrinsic value. Let me bring this together to explain how our strategy and priorities are being leveraged to maximize the potential of Trane Technologies. Turning to Slide 22, you can see we're focused on 4 key priorities to continue delivering differentiated shareholder returns. We're excited to focus on a couple of key areas today, both of which are strengthened by our business transformation, which helps unlock Trane Technologies' full potential over the long term. The first is through further increasing business reinvestments in sustainable innovation, which bolsters our ability to continue to grow faster than our end markets as we've done by a significant margin in recent years. The second is how we leverage our business operating system and operational excellence, combined with our business transformation, fundamentally lowers our cost structure to continue to expand margins. We've made good progress improving incremental margins over the past 3 years, and transformation enables us to kick it up a notch sustainably. Turning to Slide 23. We're fundamentally transforming our business as a pure-play climate-focused innovator and driving approximately $300 million in cost savings over the next 2 years in the process. We will invest these cost savings to further strengthen our high-performance flywheel, which has a reinforcing and compounding effect over time. There are 4 major elements: one, invest a significant portion of the savings into unrelenting business reinvestments in innovation and leading technology. This fuels the second element, sustained growth above our end markets. Third, we will invest another significant portion of the savings into an improved cost structure for our pure-play business, which drives the fourth element, improved and sustainable incremental margins at or above 25% over the mid to long term. When combined, this creates a compounding effect of high-quality earnings growth and free cash flow year after year. By reimagining Trane Technologies and fundamentally improving our business and our cost structure, we don't have to choose between increasing business reinvestments and innovation to fuel growth or delivering cost savings to expand margins. Our business transformation funds both. Net, through transformation, we believe we can continue to consistently deliver above-market growth while delivering 25% leverage consistently over the long term. On a historical basis, as I highlighted earlier, we delivered very strong financial performance. We clearly outgrew underlying economic conditions in our end markets with an 8% revenue CAGR over the period. Leverage was solid and improved over the period, reaching 23% in 2019 and helping to deliver 19% adjusted EPS growth, with 106% free cash flow to earnings conversion and 90 basis points of EBITDA expansion. However, improving leverage to 25% from the 16% average over the period would have driven even stronger margin expansion and greater earnings power. For reference, margins would have expanded an additional 170 basis points. Pre-RMT Climate segment margins would have expanded to 16.7% by 2019, which compares favorably to the 16.5% target from our 2017 Investor Day. Enterprise EBITDA margins would have expanded to 16.9% as compared to the 15.2% achieved in 2019. Clearly, improving incremental margins to the 25% level is powerful, and we're confident we can deliver this target with the framework we've outlined today. Now I'd like to turn the call over to Dave Regnery, who will talk in more detail about our continued relentless investments and superior innovation to drive both growth and margin expansion. Dave? David S. Regnery - Trane Technologies plc - President & COO Thanks, Chris, and thank you to everyone for joining us this morning. I would like to dive a bit deeper into driving growth and margin expansion through innovation and performance excellence. Please turn to Slide 25. I'll start with our track record, then Ray and I will discuss several key priorities and Chris will come back on our value creation framework. Please turn to Slide #26. To quickly recap, you'll see here that over the past 3 years, we have delivered margin expansion of 90 basis points despite significant headwinds from tariffs and material inflation in 2017 and into 2018. Our people and the culture we create is what's making us different. 7 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 14, 2020 / 3:00PM, TT.N - Trane Technologies PLC Investor Briefing We believe we can get better every day. We continue to find innovative ways to reduce waste in our businesses and creative approaches to make things better for our customers, applying lean principles in our proven operating system. Please turn to Slide 27. Let me share a few thoughts on how we do that through our business operating system, the backbone of all that we do. We start with our customer to understand and anticipate their needs and how value can be created. We empower our employees. They're closest to the action. They know which problems to solve and how to solve them. We put a sustainable mindset on all we do: design, process, operations, taking action today for a better tomorrow. Together, this leads to profitable growth through margin expansion, share gain and contribution to a better, more sustainable world. Our operating system is the underpinning of our strategy, a continuous improvement mentality that propels our businesses to perform at a high level today and into the future. Let's now turn to the priorities that are driving growth and margin expansion. Please turn to Slide 29. There are 3 key areas we focus on to drive continued improvement. I'm going to talk about the first 2 and Ray will cover the third. Moving to Slide #30. Turning now to the first area, innovation driven by megatrends. You've heard us speak about the megatrends on the left of the slide. Climate change is happening. The world is getting warmer. Today, 55% of the world's population lives in urban areas. By 2050, that number is projected to increase by 25%, increasing energy demand and emissions. Changing demographics are driving increased demand for food, water and energy, putting pressure on our natural resources. And we're seeing 2 accelerating megatrends that are particularly relevant for us. At Trane Technologies, we have been experts in helping our customers with indoor air quality for decades. Now with COVID-19, this has become top of mind for the world. We'll talk more about this a bit later. The second accelerating megatrend is digital connectedness. Utilizing our sophisticated modeling capability, coupled with our AI tools, we were able to make buildings smarter from inception. We then monitor the building over its lifetime as compared to its digital twin, allowing for adjustments back to the original optimized specification. Additionally, we often remotely fix or adjust building systems versus sending technicians in person. In short, when buildings are connected, we ensure they are always operating at the desired state, eliminating energy waste. With data, we are capturing from over 21,000 connected buildings, we are able to apply our AI tools to make buildings operate even smarter. We understand how buildings are used, occupants, patterns and flows, the impact of weather patterns and other trends, which gives us the ability to make real-time changes to save energy or improve the health and comfort of the building. Let me give you an example. We recently partnered with a large data center customer. We thought this data center had a very efficient chiller plant, one of the most efficient in the world, in fact. However, when we applied our artificial intelligence tools to analyze multivariable data sets and optimize the software algorithms that control the system, we were still able to increase efficiency by 30%. This gives you a sense of how Trane Technologies is accelerating innovative sustainability solutions. The megatrends I've highlighted are telling us that urgency is high and the time to act is now. We are seeing an accelerated need for innovative climate solutions to support the health of people and our planet. Please go to Slide 31. So what is our innovation pipeline? I can remember back in 2009 after Trane was acquired by Ingersoll Rand, and we had less than 20 new product innovations in the pipeline. Less than 20, and we were concerned about our ability to successfully execute all of them. Today, our innovation pipeline is full and robust and has been a source of growth for several years. We currently have more than 200 products in the pipeline, and we're not letting up. At the bottom of the slide, we highlight just a sliver of our product pipeline, ranging from electrification of both heating and transportation, near-0 global warming potential refrigerant systems, products that help our customers improve their indoor air quality and artificial intelligence-enabled solutions to reduce building energy intensity and emissions and improved building health like the data center I explained earlier. 8 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 14, 2020 / 3:00PM, TT.N - Trane Technologies PLC Investor Briefing Through our business operating system, we fundamentally transformed how we innovate at Trane Technologies, which has dramatically increased the volume, quality and the velocity of projects we're able to launch. As an example, in our Thermo King business in EMEA, we will launch 18 new products in the next 18 months. That's a new product every month. Moving now to our second focused area, delivering superior commercialization of our products and services. Please turn to Slide #33. Success is not just about developing a new product or service. How we commercialize the product or service is another important element that differentiates Trane Technologies in the market. Our highly trained and expert direct sales force allows us to not only understand customers' needs but also creates a cohesive consultive relationship between Trane Technologies and our end users. Our customers rely on our expertise. And as a streamlined climate innovator, we will continue to focus our investments in areas that allow Trane Technologies to accelerate our rate of innovation for customers. We have some of the best minds in the industry, challenging what is possible and developing what was thought of as impossible just a short time ago. Coupled with our leading commercialization expertise, we deliver a superior growth profile versus competitors and a lower total cost of ownership for our customers. Let me share with you a few examples. Turning to Slide #34. The first is our next-generation trailer technology, the Advancer. Developed by our Thermo King team in EMEA, the Advancer is the most sustainable trailer refrigeration unit on the market and has the lowest total cost of ownership. Compared to any other trailer unit, the Advancer delivers 30% better fuel consumption, reaches its target temperature 40% faster, reduces maintenance costs by 30%, and my favorite, the product takes 60% less energy to manufacture. When we were developing the Advancer, we deployed engineering prototypes to our customers for testing purposes. And they performed so well that when it was time for them to be returned, remember, these were engineering prototypes for testing purposes that we expect it to get back. Our customers would choose to get them back. They wanted to buy them. I told them, "No, no, no. We need those units back. I'll show you new units." The product officially launched in July, sales activity is strong and margins are higher versus our current trailer product. We are very encouraged to date. Please go to Slide #35. Turning to our next case study. Our European commercial HVAC team recently launched the Sintesis balance 4-pipe chiller. This fully electric unit combines both heating and cooling, eliminating the need for a separate fossil fuel-powered boiler. You could see the opportunities on the left. I'll touch on 2. First, we see the size of the electrification of the applied heating market in Europe to be approximately $1 billion. Through strategic M&A and our own innovation, we are penetrating this previously untapped adjacent market. This market is just one example of adjacent markets that are opening up to Trane Technologies. Other adjacencies include our ability to replace ammonia-based systems used in industrial applications, a market we estimate to be greater than $1 billion. Our chiller platform provides a safe, sustainable solution for these industrial applications with a strong service tail. A third adjacency is our ability to provide indoor air quality for a variety of buildings. I'll talk more about that in our last case study. Second, the Sintesis is accretive to margins, and we see a good opportunity with service across all seasons. And why is this important? The benefits to our customers and to the world are huge. The Sintesis is 350% more efficient than the boiler it replaces. And the unit recovers energy without generating its own carbon emissions. When powered by electricity from renewable sources, the Sintesis Balance is a 0 emissions solutions. It is innovations like this that are making our Gigaton Challenge a reality. Please turn to Slide 36. Now for our final case study, indoor air quality. This topic is generating tremendous interest around the globe. We have decades of expertise in this area, and we are partnering with our customers on comprehensive indoor air quality assessments, which are fact-based, data-driven analysis. These are not check-the-box exercises. They can take hundreds of hours to prepare. We take a holistic approach, looking at the entire system, not just a component in the system but the entire system. We start by understanding the current mission and purpose of the building, recognizing that, over time, the mission and purpose can change as tenants and occupants change. We ensure the building equipment is operating as designed. We use sophisticated proprietary modeling tools to evaluate and match filter density to fresh air exchanges. With these tools, we create a customized solution with improvements to filter density and 9 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 14, 2020 / 3:00PM, TT.N - Trane Technologies PLC Investor Briefing fresh air exchanges that will operate efficiently within the building system to help our customers operate to a higher standard. And we install proper sensing technology. Then we work with our customer to provide a road map to a healthier space. Day 1, let's make the building as safe as possible today. Day 2, what structural changes need to be made long term to improve the building health or reduce the energy intensity of the building, which could include more sophisticated air treatment processes like ducted photocatalytic oxidation solutions or interim solutions like dry hydrogen peroxide to reduce pathogens in the air and on surfaces. Our services give our customers assurance through proactive assessments and mitigation measures that can improve the health and safety of their buildings. These measures also help to improve the confidence of the building occupants. And coupled with our energy services and connected building expertise, we have the ability to help our customers manage the entire indoor environment as well as the building's impact on the outdoor environment. We have come a long way from when I remember less than 20 projects in the innovation pipeline to Trane Technologies today with more than 200. We are leading the industry with innovation, superior commercialization and a deliberate focus on growth and margin expansion. I expect more in the future. I would now like to introduce Ray Pittard, our transformation leader, to walk us through how we have re-blueprinted our company. Ray? Ray Pittard - Trane Technologies plc - Former President of Transport Solutions - North America, Europe, Middle East & Africa Thanks, Dave. Let's turn now to how we're transforming our operational platform to assure even stronger execution and performance for Trane Technologies for the future. Moving to Slide 38. Let me begin by outlining the framework of this transformational execution platform. We began by making thousands of strategic choices, ranging from choosing to invest in centers of excellence around refrigerants and compression to modeling and simulation tools to culture builders around diversity, inclusion and engagement. Through these strategic choices, we created a transformed platform with 4 key elements that enhance our long-term execution capabilities for Trane Technologies. They include designing an organization that's fit for purpose, building budgets that align to that organization, transforming our IT capabilities to orient to our future needs and elevating our supply chain capabilities to the next level. The result of this is a company that can execute value creation for customers, employees and shareholders at an even stronger level than today. I'm now going to cover each of these 4 key focus areas. Turning now to our first key focus area on Slide #39. Let's start with our new fit-for-purpose organizational model. What you see here on the left is a summary of the actions we've taken with the outcomes on the right. A critical part of our organizational transformation has been to simplify structures, move resources closer towards our customers and optimize our new pure-play climate company. By designing our new organization with these aspects in mind, we've been able to streamline and flatten our structure which enables speed, creates more empowerment and reduces our G&A cost to achieve benchmark-level performance. As a part of this transformed organization, we moved responsibilities to the business units, resulting in less overhead, better alignment and accountability and faster execution. Let me give you an example. We moved our collections team from corporate and into the businesses. Prior to this realignment, our collections team still have been making improving progress on our disputes resolutions as it relates to accounts receivable. Afterwards though, making this realignment, we've seen a 36% reduction in our disputes, achieving our lowest level in years. And we've consistently maintained that performance over the past 6 months in a really tough collections environment. Each of these realignments were considered with our financial control environment in mind. Designing fit-for-purpose roles and functions has improved the clarity and accountability, which strengthens our control environment. With this new structure in mind, let's now look at the approach we took towards building our new budget blueprints and the benefits on the next slide. Let's turn to our second key focus area on Slide #40. We leveraged a strategic choice process to build budgets that align directly to our pure-play purpose and priorities. This work started with fare benchmarking to assure we have best-in-class targets for effectiveness and efficiency by function. Then we focused on the work in that function to challenge what was needed using a strategic choice framework and a 0-based starting point all 10 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 14, 2020 / 3:00PM, TT.N - Trane Technologies PLC Investor Briefing in alignment with our pure-play purpose. As we went through thousands of choices to decide what we want to invest in, we built demand models that inform specific line item budgets. All in all, we reviewed over 70 functional areas, hundreds of cost accounts and literally spent thousands of hours getting it right. The outcome was a blueprint for our organizational model and budgets that created a step function improvement in our effectiveness, efficiency and aligns to our climate-focused strategy. Simply stated, we didn't just take a prior budget and cut it by a target percentage. For every single line item in over 70 functions, we started at 0 and then only added in the cost if there was a clear benefit to our customers and our strategy, as I would think of it, a true clean sheet approach. So you might ask how has this impacted our cost structure. Moving to Slide #41. I want to bring together the first 2 key focus areas and remind you of the impact of our actions. We've been test driving our transform organizational model for a couple of quarters, and the results are really bearing fruit. We've exceeded our original cost reduction expectations, resulting in savings of $100 million in 2020 and $140 million in 2021, as shared on our recent earnings calls. Beyond the immediate benefits, there are some really interesting capability enhancements that give us even more value creation for the future. Turning to our third key focus area on Slide 42. Let's look at our repositioning of IT towards growth and additional margin expansion. By reimagining the role of IT and moving the resources to the businesses, we're able to streamline decision-making and focus on systems to help our employees create an improved customer experience. For example, we've worked through our IT portfolio to reduce overlaps in aging applications by 40%. A 40% reduction is massive. This rationalization has helped us reinvest back into front-end systems to better help our teams work with our customers and reduce the risk of obsolescence. Finally, through the strategic choice work I mentioned earlier, we are adjusting our delivery model for core and noncore work to be fully optimized for our company, resulting in additional cost savings and better performance. Now let's talk about our fourth key focus area. Please turn to Slide 42. A great place to continue to build world-class capability is around our supply chain. By lifting our skills as a company in this area, we can deliver increasing productivity to fund growth investments and expand our EBITDA. So you might ask how are we improving from a solid starting point. We've benchmarked best-in-class capabilities and made strategic choices to invest in our team's capability, the latest analytic tools and improved cross-functional processes to further elevate our performance. Across nearly 80 categories of spend, everything from motors and metal fabrication to IT hardware, we've been able to deliver stronger levels of productivity. A good example is the use of should-cost analytic tools and processes that give our category a good visibility to cost improvement opportunities. For instance, one category team used these new methods to focus on a piece of our IT hardware spend and reduce that cost by nearly 20%. This initiative enables expanded productivity pipelines and better value capture by our teams. We're realizing this already. Another lever is for us to decrease our cycle time from idea to value capture to increase project throughput. Our teams have been using lean tools and methods to dramatically reduce cycle time over 25% this year alone, which, of course, results in increased productivity. Together, better capability to extract value and faster speed gives us a bigger productivity engine to drive cost savings and further investment for the future. In summary, on Slide 44, our repositioning of IT and supply chain excellence initiatives are expected to drive an additional $160 million in savings over the next 3 years, with supply chain excellence being the larger contributor to these savings. Now let me turn it over to Chris to discuss how our business transformation provides fuel to drive our value creation framework. Chris? Christopher J. Kuehn - Trane Technologies plc - Senior VP & CFO Thanks, Ray. Let me summarize our total transformation savings and share with you how we are thinking about our shareholder value creation framework over the next several years. Turning to Slide 46. The additional transformation savings Ray outlined, including both repositioned IT and supply chain excellence savings, are adding $160 million to the previously communicated $140 million of fixed cost savings, bringing our gross transformation cost savings to $300 million by 2023. 11 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 14, 2020 / 3:00PM, TT.N - Trane Technologies PLC Investor Briefing Turning to Slide 47. Bringing everything together, we've laid out our model for long-term value creation. Through the reimagining and transformation of Trane Technologies, we're delivering $300 million in savings that we will reinvest to strengthen our ability to drive continued growth above underlying economic conditions in our end markets, with sustainable 25% leverage, resulting in business outperformance over the long term. Turning to Slide 48. Looking forward, the key things I drive home based on today's transformation discussion are: first, we intend to maintain very high levels of business reinvestment in innovation and technology to further extend our product and market leadership. Transformation savings bolster our ability to continue our relentless investments in products and services and to fully invest in value-accretive M&A. Second, we expect to continue to deliver free cash flow equal to or greater than 100% of adjusted earnings. This is world-class performance and demonstrates our commitment to converting earnings into real cash for investors. And third, we expect to deploy 100% of excess cash over time in a thoughtful and balanced way. Now I'd like to turn the call back over to Mike for closing thoughts before we take your questions. Mike? Michael W. Lamach - Trane Technologies plc - Chairman & CEO Thank you, Chris, and please go to Slide 49. In summary, the reimagining and transformation of Trane Technologies is well underway and is strengthening our value creation framework to outperform consistently over time. By transforming the company, as we've outlined in detail today, we're driving $300 million in cost savings and deploying savings into innovation or continued to market outgrowth into a sustainable incremental margin profile of 25% over the long term. We've been executing our business operating system and our value creation framework consistently for years now, continuously improving and raising the bar for performance. The reimagining and transformation of Trane Technologies into a pure-play is an evolution that bolsters our business operating system and gives us a wider field of play and clearer line of sight to our high performance objectives. I spoke earlier about the strength of our business model, and I think it bears repeating here as we've summarized in the investor briefing. Reinvesting in the business and executing to achieve the right cost structure are not binary choices. It's a system of things that need to work in concert over the long run to create lasting shareholder value. It's attentiveness to all areas of the operating systems that makes the company strong. It's not a program you can run for a year or 2 or 3 and expect to get consistent results. Innovation and cost reduction are both part of the operating system. If you treat it as a project that you're going to run for a year or even several years and then shift priorities back to one or the other, you're going to get inconsistent results. Executing on our business model consistently is how we've been successful over many years. Building in all the elements of our reimagining and business transformation that you've heard about today serves to further strengthen our core business model and bolster our ability to continue our track record of end market outgrowth and 25% leverage over the next several years. When combined with the long-term sustainability megatrends underpinning our end markets, the powerful free cash flow we generate and the balanced capital deployment of 100% of excess cash over time, we are uniquely positioned to continue to drive differentiated shareholder returns. At the outset of the presentation, I outlined what I hoped everyone would take away from today's call, for you to walk away with confidence that we will outgrow the economy at large, outgrow our end markets and that we will deliver on 25% leverage over the mid and long term. I hope today's investor briefing has achieved these objectives. And with that, Dave, Ray, Chris, Zac and I'll be happy to take your questions. Operator? 12 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 14, 2020 / 3:00PM, TT.N - Trane Technologies PLC Investor Briefing QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS Operator (Operator Instructions) Your first question comes from Andy Kaplowitz with Citigroup. Andrew Alec Kaplowitz - Citigroup Inc., Research Division - MD and U.S. Industrial Sector Head Mike, when you think about the 4.5% organic revenue growth over that 3-year period, '17 to '19 that you recorded, that didn't include what we would consider these new megatrends you talked about such as increased IAQ and also wasn't during a time when you were reinvesting the $300 million back into your business. So would you say that these megatrends and the reinvestment gives Trane a good probability of reporting that kind of growth or more over the longer term? Michael W. Lamach - Trane Technologies plc - Chairman & CEO Yes. Andy, I think the best way that I've always thought about it is constructing a portfolio that could really grow at a multiple of GDP. And we really were committed to that when we did the spin, both of Allegion, frankly, and under the Ingersoll Rand assets to create this climate focus, which we think rides this tailwind of sustainability, greenhouse gas emission reduction, lowering the energy intensity of the world, providing better cold chain access and delivery for food and medicine. All those things should go into multiple GDP. So in some ways, you've got to take what the base economy throws at you. But my view would be to do -- my view would be from a performance perspective to operate at a multiple of that. Now whether it's twice or 3x, that's really dependent on how innovative can we be and to what extent can we drive some of this innovation and commercialize it. But I'm just incredibly optimistic around the growth rates going forward. Andrew Alec Kaplowitz - Citigroup Inc., Research Division - MD and U.S. Industrial Sector Head And Mike, just a few years ago, you used to talk about your digital business being $1 billion. You don't want to talk about it like that anymore, I get it. But is there a way -- I mean, you talked about it a lot today in the prepared remarks. Is there a way to think about that business today maybe as a percentage of the service business? You talked about 45% of your North American HVAC business as a service. So how much is more recurring revenue? And you can put in the assessments that you've talked about in IAQ in the past. Is it becoming a lot bigger portion of that service business? Michael W. Lamach - Trane Technologies plc - Chairman & CEO Andy, I'd tell you, back 5, 7 years ago, when really the whole digital strategies that companies talked about came into focus and a lot of companies talked about the digital strategy and expressed it in a very sort of specific to growth rates. To us, it was inconsistent with the fact that you monetize a digital strategy across so many elements of your value stream that it's very difficult to be able to pinpoint that. It helps in the way that you provide a warranty or predicted diagnostics or monetize performance guarantees that helps in the way you provide service or leveraging overhead that you would be dispatching and reducing the required head count because you're not as able to handle a percentage of those service inquiries remotely. So all those things really encompass a dozen or more areas of the value stream that impact profitability and growth rates of a company. And that, to us, has always been the hallmark of a digital strategy. I think that this pandemic has accelerated that. We see that in our daily lives. The amount of activity and bandwidth we're consuming at home, whether that's for education or shopping, all the way through to how buildings are going to be maintained, measured. One of that measurement is on energy savings or the indoor air quality of the building. I think you'll see an acceleration of this going forward. I think it will be embedded into the growth rates of the company. It's going to be very difficult to specifically say how much of the value creation as a company is associated with 13 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 14, 2020 / 3:00PM, TT.N - Trane Technologies PLC Investor Briefing this. But my guess is that we pick up 3 years or 5 years maybe acceleration as people look for more creative ways to be connected and have some certainty or surety around how their building or how their cold chain is actually operating. David S. Regnery - Trane Technologies plc - President & COO Yes, this is Dave. The only thing I would add is we've seen an acceleration in our connected building strategy, especially in our commercial space. And we have over 21,000 connected buildings right now. And really with indoor air quality, we're really able to leverage that. So we understand when a unit is not performing the way it was designed. And we can either remotely fix that. In some cases, we have to dispatch technicians, especially when it comes to things like fresh air exchanges. If dampers are not operating properly, we're able to detect that. And then we're able to make sure that, that building gets back online and is operating in a very safe manner. Operator Your next question comes from Julian Mitchell with Barclays. Julian C.H. Mitchell - Barclays Bank PLC, Research Division - Research Analyst Maybe just a question on that Slide 46, the $300 million of annual savings. So I think you're getting about $100 million of that this year in 2020. Maybe help us understand the phasing of that remaining sort of $200 million, how much we get next year, perhaps, or is it more back-end loaded? And also, how concerned, if at all, are you by the pressure that higher input costs could provide in the next 12 months or so? Christopher J. Kuehn - Trane Technologies plc - Senior VP & CFO Julian, this is Chris. I'll start here and appreciate you joining this morning. So you're right. The first $100 million of the $300 million in total was cost that we took out here in 2020. And when we talked to you back in October, we had $140 million identified of the plan, of which $40 million would be incremental in 2021. So that gets you the $140 million in total for the first part of the program. The new program or addition we're adding today of $160 million is really earned, let's say, equally over time over the next few years. And we will hit that run rate of $300 million of savings by 2023. So I'd look at it probably even over that period. And then your comment on or your question on input costs, part of the standard work that we drive as part of the company is really making sure that we have an ability, with our innovation, to price above what we're seeing input cost to be, let's say, 20 to 30 basis points of price over what we would call material cost or raw material costs. So that would be part of our standard work as we go forward. It's been successful in the past, and we will continue to do that and drive that going forward. Ray Pittard - Trane Technologies plc - Former President of Transport Solutions - North America, Europe, Middle East & Africa Julian, the only thing I'd add, this is Ray Pittard, is that the projects that we're talking about in the supply chain side are a little bit longer cycle. They're complex, and so they do take a little while. It's cross-functional. It's like our product growth teams where it involves engineering, sourcing and manufacturing, oftentimes retesting and design. So there is a little bit of a cycle that you have to run through there. But we have great confidence -- and the teams have identified the opportunities with some of the new capabilities we discussed. And so I think the confidence in the $300 million overall is very, very high for us. 14 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 14, 2020 / 3:00PM, TT.N - Trane Technologies PLC Investor Briefing Michael W. Lamach - Trane Technologies plc - Chairman & CEO Yes, I'd probably kick the last piece of this thing, Julian, would be to say that the cycle times to do that work are down about 25% or improved 25%. So we're really working hard to be more agile in some of those projects. But the programs that we show here totaling the $300 million are very deeply programmed out with resources and time lines. And so the degree of confidence on this $300 million is quite high. There's a pipeline beyond that, that we just want more visibility into, a bit more time to execute that Ray and is full time on and his team is managing this. And so a high degree of confidence that we can get that done in the time frame allotted here. Julian C.H. Mitchell - Barclays Bank PLC, Research Division - Research Analyst And then just my follow-up around perhaps capital deployment. You mentioned a little bit of it on Slide 48. But just wanted to push a bit more perhaps on how attractive you see perhaps larger M&A today. Or do you think that public market valuations are just such that it's very difficult to find attractive deals in this environment, and so buybacks are a sort of likely -- more likely move for next year? Michael W. Lamach - Trane Technologies plc - Chairman & CEO Yes. We've been successful. We've been able to get a few things done. We've got a few more things that we think will close relatively soon. Generally, they're going to be -- we see more private company transactions at this point in time. And there -- yes, there is a wider bid-ask relative to the jump-off point. Obviously, you saw this morning, they use '19 EBITDA versus '20 and obviously, us looking at a way at it. But in the long run, I think structurally, we're just spending more time understanding these opportunities, and we're still closing them. From a public company perspective, nothing really there has changed much. And I think there is value to be created in combinations, but we've always felt that we're dealing with a really strong foundation. Anything here that we would do of a transformative nature would have to be really good for shareholders. And if that were the case, we'd certainly participate. But a lot of what we're seeing here, I would say in the next 1 to 12 months is really in that bolt-on technology, a bolt-on channel category. Christopher J. Kuehn - Trane Technologies plc - Senior VP & CFO Yes. Mike, what I would add, back in October, just as a reminder, we had talked about reimplementing all aspects of our capital deployment priorities, Julian. And that includes M&A and share repurchases. So to Mike's point, there'll probably be some things we'll see here over the next 3 to 6 to 12 months. On the share repurchase side, again, we paused those for 6 months or so as we're really entering the pandemic and the downturn. All elements again are available to us at this point in time and going forward. And we really see that as a good use of cash and we're trading below our intrinsic value. And I would just close by just reminding, our goal remains to be to deploy 100% of excess cash over time, and we're reaffirming that again today. Michael W. Lamach - Trane Technologies plc - Chairman & CEO And Chris, one last comment I'd make is on cash flow ROIC of the M&A that we've done. You look at the 22 deals we've done and the $2 billion we spent over the last few years, it's really sort of extraordinary to go back and look at that now, whether it's been a month or 3 years and you look at the actual results or forecast results that are coming to fruition. And across that portfolio, Chris mentioned a couple that were 40% cash flow ROIC investments. I would say that broadly, we've seen all of the acquisitions made in that period of time to be 40% or better. And so the ability for the company to really do a nice job integrating both sourcing, paying the right price, integrating, getting value out of the acquisitions is above all of -- on the aggregate basis, above all of our business case expectations at this point. 15 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 14, 2020 / 3:00PM, TT.N - Trane Technologies PLC Investor Briefing David S. Regnery - Trane Technologies plc - President & COO Yes. And I could just add, I think that some of the M&A that we've been able to complete over the last several years has really helped fuel some of our innovation. So if you look at like a small acquisition we had in Europe of thermal coal, it really became the basis of our 4-pipe chiller, which is a heat pump technology, which when I talk about these adjacencies of the applied heating market in Europe, that acquisition is really leading us in that direction. Arctic Chiller, another one where it really helped us learn a significant amount about magnetic bearing compressors. So again, the operating map within a chiller has now expanded, and we're now playing in spaces that we didn't think were possible in the past. FRIGOBLOCK in the Thermo King business, another example of really accelerating where we're going with the electrification of that portfolio. So some great acquisitions, some great technology and really has helped us fuel our innovation pipeline. Operator Your next question comes from Scott Davis with Melius Research. Scott Reed Davis - Melius Research LLC - Founding Partner, Chairman, CEO & Research Analyst of Multi-Industry Research Can you talk a little bit about your supply chain? I mean, it's got to be a little stressed right now but perhaps just a little color on that. Michael W. Lamach - Trane Technologies plc - Chairman & CEO Well, it was stressed a lot more back in the March, April, May time frame, Scott, honestly. We were on multiple calls that day, really obviously, like all manufacturers have been in and out in certain areas and traversed the world starting in China and over to Western Europe and, finally, India and Mexico. And so yes, it's stressed, but really, it's not to the point where we're seeing any material delays in anything that we're doing. And frankly, we feel better about it right now than we would have 5, 6 months ago for sure. It's something that I would say we're down to weekly calls, right, as a management team. It's certainly not the daily firefighting drills that we were on before. Scott Reed Davis - Melius Research LLC - Founding Partner, Chairman, CEO & Research Analyst of Multi-Industry Research Okay, that makes sense. And then just a follow-up on aftermarket, I think you're around 31% or so. Is there like a longer-term target or goal? Is there like an optimal level that you can think about that you're trying to drive towards? Michael W. Lamach - Trane Technologies plc - Chairman & CEO I always think that if you could have the gross margins of your aftermarket business, profitability exceed your SG&A for the entire company, that would be a pretty strong position to be in. So I look at that as sort of a milestone there. It really supports something north of 50% in our Commercial HVAC businesses. So I like where we are in the Americas on that front, and we see Europe next behind and closing fast and ultimately Asia, led by China, to close. So I think getting the portfolio of Commercial HVAC to 50% is a good start. Of course, keep pushing on the Commercial American HVAC team. I don't think it's a limit to 50%. But ultimately, if you can get your contribution margin from service to offset the full overhead of the company, it would be a powerful flywheel, which we talked about earlier today. But that's a great example of a good flywheel. 16 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 14, 2020 / 3:00PM, TT.N - Trane Technologies PLC Investor Briefing Operator Your next question comes from Joe Ritchie with Goldman Sachs. Joseph Alfred Ritchie - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - VP & Lead Multi-Industry Analyst Maybe my first question to Dave. You talked a little bit about the comprehensive IAQ assessments that you were doing. And I like the way that you broke that out between like day 1 and day 2. I'm just curious, in terms of the discussions, like how far along are you on the day 1 discussions? I would imagine day 2, given that they're more structural in nature, are still very much ongoing. But I'm just curious like how far along are you on those discussions with how you guys are defining that opportunity. Michael W. Lamach - Trane Technologies plc - Chairman & CEO Yes. I'll start. We continue to see strong demand for IAQ assessments and service. We have a large growing pipeline. As I said in the opening comments, we take a very holistic view of this. We don't just look at a component. We look at the entire system. There's a lot of commercial office space that's out there. I think it's 400 billion square feet, so there's a lot of space and a lot of opportunities in front of us. The holistic approach is we really work with our customers, and it is a day 1 and a day 2. I'll give you an example, Joe. We're working with a school district in the Midwest, right? And this is K-12. And working with that customer on day 1, we understood what their needs were. And this particular was, yes, we want to improve our indoor air quality, but we're really concerned about surface areas because we have students that are switching classrooms and they're going to a different desk. And our expertise, one of the things that differentiates Trane Technologies is our expertise and being able to apply which solution to make the best impact for the customer. And there's a lot of solutions that you're going to read about that are being marketed from an upgrade to filter density to electrostatic filters to bipolar ionization to photocatalytic oxidation, UV lights and all these things are very sophisticated. And our expertise is being able to help that customer. So in this school district, we worked with our customer. We implemented a photocatalytic oxidation solution. And this particular photocatalytic oxidation solution generates H2O2, which is dry hydrogen peroxide. Dry hydrogen peroxide is very safe. And the unique element about this is it has a half-life. And that's the amount of time that it could actually stay in the environment before it dissipates. The half-life could be up to 30 minutes. So for this school district, not only did we solve their indoor air quality. But now because of this dry hydrogen peroxide actually settling on surfaces, in this case, desktops, we've actually removed pathogens that could exist on that desktop. And those types of examples -- I mean, I have another example. We have a large office complex in the Southeast, where, again, what's the mission of the building? What is the purpose and how can we help? Day 1, yes, we got all the equipment operating. Day 2, we sat with our customer. And this particular office complex had a lot of small 4-walled offices inside it. So in that case, we implemented a bipolar ionization system, which is very good for small concealed offices, implemented that with the customer. We augmented it to their heavy traffic areas and put a dry hydrogen peroxide system into like cafeterias and some of their large conference rooms. So we're seeing that happening. We have obviously follow-up calls with all the assessments that we've done. And it really is -- it's becoming -- we're seeing a lot of momentum in that space. I think it's a little too early to size that but we're seeing a lot of opportunities. David S. Regnery - Trane Technologies plc - President & COO I think one of the evolutions, too, Joe, has been that where we're going out and doing these assessments, which often will involve technicians and our engineering team will also, at the same time, for the quick fixes, actually implementing a lot of repairs right then? So Dave mentioned, one of the things you first do in a building is you make sure the outdoor air exchanges are happening per the standard. And one of the things that happens there is the simple linkages that control dampers and move the positions or both are not set or not functioning correctly. And so while we're there, we're doing repairs at the same time. 17 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 14, 2020 / 3:00PM, TT.N - Trane Technologies PLC Investor Briefing So that's probably the evolution of what we're seeing here as day 1s including on the assessment, if we can, taking action with control systems or damper positions or filtration at the same time. But there's urgency to all this and it makes no sense for us to come back twice or multiple times if we don't have to. Joseph Alfred Ritchie - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - VP & Lead Multi-Industry Analyst Got it. That's helpful color from both of you, guys. My 1 follow-up, I just wanted to go back to Julian's question from earlier on commodity inflation. Mike, I remember it must have been the 2017 time frame, I think, when you guys were expanding into China. There are a few quarters where there's a bit of a struggle to really kind of offset some of the inflationary costs that we saw back then. I'm just wondering, like as you kind of head into 2021 across your portfolio, are you further -- far along in your penetration in China that you don't see that being an issue? And how are you just thinking about offsetting commodity inflation in 2021? Michael W. Lamach - Trane Technologies plc - Chairman & CEO Yes. Well, there's 1 thing about the direct sales force before you get into sort of pricing mechanics, which is a direct sales force on a technical sale into a commercial or applied building done by a technical team or an individual sales force that has that sort of training background with us really creates the opportunity to become the basis of design. And when you're the basis of design, you're generally going to have an advantage. You determine the system, the efficiencies, what's required, how the building will operate, the sequence of operation for the building. And that all really helps then create the value framework for the customer and for us. So that takes a lot of -- it's going and I'm very happy it's been a great success for us. But specifically, as it gets to maybe a quote or a proposal that you would have provided to a customer where the building is being built or recorded or reconstructed, there could be a time lag. And a larger applied system, typically, it could be 3 months, 6 months, 9 months. There are times you can get caught a little bit in that equation where if you've got a dramatic run-up in steel or copper or aluminum or some Tier 2 commodity components, it can take you a lot of of catch-up. But ultimately, we do catch up and we've been able to recover that for a long, long period of time. You just do get some anomalies. By the way, you get it the other way, too, right? Things drop precipitously, and you're sort of locking up the higher deliveries and it can work the other way. And you saw that in the 2013, 2014 time frame, maybe even a little bit in 2019, I think we had a more positive spread -- more than the 20, 30 basis points at that point. Operator Your next question comes from John Walsh with Credit Suisse. John Fred Walsh - Crdit Suisse AG, Research Division - Director So I guess maybe the first question. You talked with M&A, getting that heat pump technology in Europe. A lot of discussion out of Europe around stimulus, not only around greenhouse gas emissions but also employment, which I think sometimes gets missed. Can you talk about what you're seeing maybe around the world from some global stimulus around energy efficiency? And maybe you can use Europe as an example. Michael W. Lamach - Trane Technologies plc - Chairman & CEO Well, Europe's been sort of a double benefit, right? You've got this enormous movement around the environment, around greenhouse gas emissions and inspecting codes and standards and policies and law. And it really effects both our HVAC and our refrigeration business in a very, very positive way. And then, of course, any stimulus really is a benefit, and clearly, we ride that general economic activity benefit. 18 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 14, 2020 / 3:00PM, TT.N - Trane Technologies PLC Investor Briefing But I would say more than stimulus, for us, it's been really around riding that sustainability wave for the most part. And if you think about here in the U.S. under a Biden administration, clearly, there's going to be a focus on environmental sustainability, around energy efficiency, whether that's buildings or beyond or rejoining the Paris Accord. I think all of that, of course, is very favorable for our company going forward. And in China, the last couple 5-year plans that have been published by the Chinese government, clean air, clean water are priority. And that's coming through in what we're seeing in China as it relates to standard adoption there and more attention spent on the combination of energy efficiency and greenhouse gas emissions there as well. So I mean the world is moving in the right direction. I mean this is really the reason the company today is a focused climate innovator is because these aren't going away, these trends and conditions. The stimulus certainly is an added benefit to all of that. John Fred Walsh - Crdit Suisse AG, Research Division - Director Okay. And then on this connected building opportunity, just wanted to get your thoughts on where you believe your entitlement is versus maybe at what point in that broader building automation solution you hand off to maybe another provider that is doing stuff beyond kind of just HVAC? And I guess the real heart of the question is you have all this domain expertise but is the customer actually buying the digital experience through Trane? Or are you feeding your information into a different point where the customer is purchasing that digital experience maybe at a broader building level? Just trying to understand that handoff and delineation. Michael W. Lamach - Trane Technologies plc - Chairman & CEO Yes. Joe, the first point is we're well beyond HVAC integration, working integrations with our customers and can work across the entire gamut of what the customer wants to integrate, whether it's looking at occupancy and security and how it integrates into fire as an example. But broadly speaking, when you think about HVAC utilization of energy in a building, it's dominant, right? I mean it's the #1 operating expense in the building. And so you tend to have customers look at HVAC and lighting together because that's what drives energy efficiency. It's also what would drive into air quality. So you put those 2 together, and that's a very typical simple integration. Customers trying to look at fire and light safety in a separate budget and there's always mechanical and electrical interface between that outside of software by code. Things have to happen in the case of fire smoke in a building. It's just not trusting the digital presence of recognition of that. It's a physical reaction to a building. And then the third bucket they look at is security, which changes by the requirements of the customer, type of activity happening inside the building. So you still see today about 99% of buildings not integrated across those 3. And then for the 1% that are integrated, our best-of-breed integration capability, utilizing other leading fire and security or other leading brands of business -- lighting would be another example. We have a high degree of capability in integrating those together. So our controls business broadly has been growing at a double-digit rate for more than a decade. And that's just indicative of the fact that I think the strategy is working there. Operator Your next question comes from Gautam Khanna with Cowen. Gautam J. Khanna - Cowen and Company, LLC, Research Division - MD & Senior Analyst I wanted to get your perspective on the resi replacement cycles. How do you think that unfolds over the medium term and sort of what informs your view on that? 19 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 14, 2020 / 3:00PM, TT.N - Trane Technologies PLC Investor Briefing Michael W. Lamach - Trane Technologies plc - Chairman & CEO Yes. I think the phenomenon in 2020 is certainly a phenomenon. It's not repeatable. I think you return to more traditional industry rates. We're not providing guidance here for 2021. But what I did say on the Q3 call is there's an expectation, there's probably an embedded sort of low single-digit growth rate in residential units. And then, of course, a lot of it from there will depend on pricing and input costs and what needs to happen to recover against cost increases. But between new construction activity, retrofit activity and the sort of the normal cadence of dilapidation of buildings or new construction of buildings, I do believe you've got this low single-digit embedded growth rate. And unless interested in the cycle, if you will, because I just don't see a cycle anymore -- any sort of math that we would have done historic in a cycle has proven to be incorrect for probably at least a half a dozen -- 5, 6 years, even at this point in time. So I don't see the traditional residential cycles anymore really playing a factor in our thinking about all this. We generally plan for low single-digit growth rates in that business, a little bit of a kicker when you get regulatory change and/or when you get additional pricing that needs to happen because of material inflation. So maybe at the end of the day, you end up with something that's more toward mid-single digits. So it's a good business. But 2020 was a freak occurrence. Gautam J. Khanna - Cowen and Company, LLC, Research Division - MD & Senior Analyst Understood. And I know you mentioned on the M&A front that large transformational M&A is not likely for Trane over the next 12 to 18 months. But maybe if you could just opine on what you think happens with some of your competitors. Do you anticipate there will be room for some big consolidation? And if so, how that might impact your thinking on what to do next? Michael W. Lamach - Trane Technologies plc - Chairman & CEO Well, when we think about 15 -- thank you. When we think about 15 companies that are out there that got size and scale, once you get past the first 4, one of which is us, they drop fairly precipitously. And when you think about the level of commitment that you've got to make from an engineering and R&D perspective to stay in the game from a compliance or energy efficiency standpoint, I think there are lots of combinations that could make sense out into the future. So again, I think that all things are possible but you've got to have willing participants. And obviously, some work better than others as it relates to the portfolios or to the lack of overlap or overlap. But generally speaking, yes, I would see consolidation in the future in the HVAC industry. It's -- I don't have a time frame for you, but certainly, I would see that being a probability. Operator Our next question comes from Nigel Coe with Wolfe Research. Nigel Edward Coe - Wolfe Research, LLC - MD & Senior Research Analyst Thanks for the information, really, really helpful. You've got a lot of service capital and you talked about excess cash, and it looks like you're going to exit this year with about $2.5 billion of excess cash and that grows to over $3 billion (inaudible) Michael W. Lamach - Trane Technologies plc - Chairman & CEO Nigel, sorry to interrupt you. You're coming in so quiet. I'm not sure if you can increase the volume at your end. 20 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 14, 2020 / 3:00PM, TT.N - Trane Technologies PLC Investor Briefing Nigel Edward Coe - Wolfe Research, LLC - MD & Senior Research Analyst Is this better? Michael W. Lamach - Trane Technologies plc - Chairman & CEO That's perfect. We didn't hear a lot of what you said. Nigel Edward Coe - Wolfe Research, LLC - MD & Senior Research Analyst Yes. Yes, that wasn't my intention, by the way. Maybe my headset's finally given up. But just talk about service capital. You're going to exit this year with about $2.5 billion of surplus cash at least, and that grows to $3 billion next year without significant deployments. Most of the acquisitions to date have been small bolt-ons. You mentioned the tens of million of dollars. So just wondering kind of what the philosophy is on excess cash for the next 12, 18 months. I mean, over time, it gets deployed, I understand that. But do you wait for maybe something transformational and keep the balance sheet a little bit flatted? Or do you think that 2021 could be a year where we see a big pickup in deployment? And then on top of that, talk about maybe something a bit larger. Do you see scope for acquisitions in Asia because that's where the market is a bit more fragmented? Michael W. Lamach - Trane Technologies plc - Chairman & CEO Yes. I think, Nigel, you have to be opportunistic across the board, whether that's on M&A or share buyback and flexible in that regard. And I think you got the points right, which is the commitment to deploying the cash over time, right? It's not in our mind some sort of calendar cutoff where the excess cash gets paid out. But certainly, we're in a strong position today to do more things than we could have been doing a couple of years ago. Balance sheet is in great shape. And so I think this is an opportunity to deploy it through its best use. I think it's extra bit of EPS firepower that we have that we intend on using. And I can promise you it will be in the same disciplined approach that we've had in the last few years. And look, to the extent we could find acquisitions that return the kinds of CF ROICs that I talked about earlier, we'd love to do that. I think we're in great shape. We've got the capacity, I don't mean just balance sheet, but from an ability and capability of really integrating these things and having them performed well. I think we're in a great position with our team here to do that. Christopher J. Kuehn - Trane Technologies plc - Senior VP & CFO And Mike, I would just add, obviously, Nigel, our goal would be in maybe the fourth quarter earnings release, hopefully provide as much visibility as we can out to investors at that time, and that would include capital deployment plans for the year. So our intent is to provide as much information as we can, and we'll likely update you here in that late January, early February time frame. Nigel Edward Coe - Wolfe Research, LLC - MD & Senior Research Analyst Great. And then my follow-on is regarding the innovation and investment commitments. And I'm curious, the pickup in investment, you're sort of highlighting, is it because the cost of next-generation efficiency and refrigerants is intrinsically rising to get to that next level of efficiency? Or is it more a case of just wanting to extend the gap between yourself and your competitors? Just curious about it. Michael W. Lamach - Trane Technologies plc - Chairman & CEO It's a little bit of a flywheel. And I know we use that analogy, but it's a little bit of a flywheel where all the pipeline projects we're seeing are generating returns that really help us feel incredibly confident about the 25% leverage opportunity. And I actually feel the same way about the other projects that we would be investing on from a productivity perspective as well, but a little bit of a flywheel. 21 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 14, 2020 / 3:00PM, TT.N - Trane Technologies PLC Investor Briefing And I do think that through some of the investment reviews that we're doing and some of the great work happening by product management teams around the world looking at all these adjacencies, there's a really full pipeline that Dave alluded to, a couple hundred projects and it's probably the same in the last couple of years, we've been maintaining a pretty consistent pipeline. One thing about those pipelines, they tend to be long-term road maps. Probably the shortest I've ever seen is 3 years. Some of these go, say, 7 years. And so the sense that there is a robust pipeline of projects is great. And the thing is, if the team will bring us an idea that it's got the returns that we're looking at in terms of target, and we have a high degree of credibility around that team's performance because, again, the teams are performing, it makes these conversations incredibly simple and the flywheel kind of turns a little faster in that regard. So I feel like the future looks pretty bright in terms of that. I don't know we're running any faster because we're worried about a competitor running faster. I just think that there's a good flywheel here and a good cadence and operating system on how we make these decisions and choices that are really paying off. David S. Regnery - Trane Technologies plc - President & COO Yes. The only thing I would add is our product growth teams and the intimacy we have with our customers is incredible. And we're constantly talking and finding out how we could help the customers create value. And we've also, through our operating system, have really been able to get really good at getting these products to market. So the velocity of moving through the pipeline is dramatically improved over time. A great example of that, Nigel, is the -- in our Thermo King business back in April, our product growth teams were talking to the pharma companies about the vaccine. And they -- by talking to those customers, they understood their need. And their particular need was to be able to transport this and store it at -70 C. And from the April time period within 6 months, we took a product we had in our portfolio, we modified it. It's very reliable. And here we are with a -70 C storage unit to really help this vaccine that's being distributed on a global basis. So a great example of innovation, a great example of getting close to the customer and understanding what the needs are, and in this case, having a real impact on the globe. Operator Your next question comes from Steve Tusa with JPMorgan. Charles Stephen Tusa - JPMorgan Chase & Co, Research Division - MD Could you maybe just talk about, as a starting point, I know like the business model and your kind of market outgrowth forecast. But I guess just on that kind of new demand cycle for the next 18 months, any kind of updates there as we head into year-end on how customers are feeling, what the feedback has been? And then I have a follow-up on IAQ. Michael W. Lamach - Trane Technologies plc - Chairman & CEO Sorry, Steve, I didn't catch you, just generally or specifically on a particular area of the business were you asking? Charles Stephen Tusa - JPMorgan Chase & Co, Research Division - MD Generally, commercial HVAC, kind of the new stuff. I know it's not as important for you guys and your business model has evolved. But what should we expect from the commercial new equipment business in the next, call it, 18 months? I mean are we going to have a cycle? Or are we just -- is this going to be incredibly muted because of general economic activity? Just curious as to your most updated thoughts there. 22 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 14, 2020 / 3:00PM, TT.N - Trane Technologies PLC Investor Briefing Michael W. Lamach - Trane Technologies plc - Chairman & CEO Yes. I'd tell you Steve, I believe the normal years to be nervous -- there hasn't been at this point kind of talk that far out in the future. I usually would give that guidance in the January, February time frame. I would say I'm particularly nervous to opine on that right now with what's happening here as we head into the crowded holiday season and look to see what happens here with vaccinations and all the uncertainty that goes with COVID right now. So I would say nothing has really changed in terms of the outlook that we gave on the Q3 earnings call, which was full revenue's down 5% and deleveraging better than gross margin. I made a few comments at that time around 2021 as well, as an example, in the res business. But yes, it's a little too early for us, Steve, here. But I'm not seeing anything that would tell us that indoor air quality going to be around for a long time and it's not going to be sort of a longer-term tailwind to whatever the economic cycle might be at the time. That's for certain. Charles Stephen Tusa - JPMorgan Chase & Co, Research Division - MD What are you seeing as the most common immediate solution, the content for you guys versus, say, whatever a system replacement cost? So if I'm a guy with an old system and I just want to do the IAQs to get my building up to a certain level, is that 5% of the system replacement cost? Is it 10%? Like what are you seeing from a content lift perspective early on in these discussions? Michael W. Lamach - Trane Technologies plc - Chairman & CEO Yes, the kind of calls that we get or the calls we're making on customers that we have today in our portfolio are -- the advantage is we go in there without a preconceived notion about what solution we have to sell to somebody, right? I mean we don't manufacture filters, right? We don't manufacture all of the devices that we would use and spaces or duct work, photocatalytic or others as an example. But the ability to step back and look at what makes sense, as Dave said, for the building -- for the purpose of the building, school versus hospital versus office building, you name it. But the #1 thing that people want to know is, are they getting enough air changes in the building? And of course, if you jump to the other end of the equation, they start over-filtering or putting devices where they don't belong, you tend to create additional problems like no airflow out to the spaces or no exhaust to make up for the additional airflow from the end of the building and pressure and humidity problems. And so they're trusting us with broader comprehensive solutions view. So it's typically looking like we would go in, make sure that the building is operating to a standard for its purpose, that we've done any immediate repairs. And then almost always as part of that, there is a road map based on the customer's ability to pay full in budget, what they want to do going forward to get to that next level. Because these things are costing more energy in terms of just what every solution you put in place uses more energy in the building. Buildings -- obviously, HVAC is the driver for energy cost in the building. We're seeing, I would say, a second or third leg of that, which is, how do I pay for this through my operating budget? What can I do to be more efficient through that? So I think it ends up with assessments and repairs. It ends up with likely a maintenance contract, maybe a digital connected contract along with an asset renewal based on the customer's appetite to be able to handle the change. And by the way, if the customer has got an immediate need and doesn't have the capacity, think about a school district or a university, that's where I think performance contract that comes in, in the back end. And we'll start to see more performance contracts, where we provide the assets and the maintenance and the savings that generate from that pay for the assets, the principal and interest on the loan. I think that will be something to watch for in the out-years as well. Charles Stephen Tusa - JPMorgan Chase & Co, Research Division - MD Right. So this sounds just a little more nuanced than, hey, IAQ could be $40 billion of opportunity for Trane? Like it's kind of -- it sounds like it's very hard to calculate and do math around a number like that, a little more nuanced. 23 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 14, 2020 / 3:00PM, TT.N - Trane Technologies PLC Investor Briefing Michael W. Lamach - Trane Technologies plc - Chairman & CEO Yes, totally. At 400 billion square feet of commercial space around the world, is it $0.10 a foot? Is it $1 a foot? I don't know. It depends on sort of what the building is, what the financial capacity is, what the standards need to be. So I think it's a long-term trend. There'll be people out selling devices, and that's okay. I mean, in most cases, it's something that's not going to hurt unless it's -- we've seen people filtering up to the point they don't get airflow. That hurts. We've been tracking some of those issues out there. But generally speaking, people putting in photocatalytic devices or those solutions aren't going to necessarily hurt anything. But it's not the long-term ultimate solution for what buildings will need to do. Operator Your next question comes from Jeff Sprague with Vertical Research. Jeffrey Todd Sprague - Vertical Research Partners, LLC - Founder & Managing Partner I was hoping for actually a little bit more context and perspective on the magnitude of the new investment. And what I mean by that is we have the number of $300 million, right? But just thinking about what you historically have spent. I know your R&D is 1.5%. I know that doesn't fully encapsulate what you spend on new products, but that would be like $200 million or so. Can you just give us some sense of -- by what percentage you're actually increasing your new product spend here as part of this program? Michael W. Lamach - Trane Technologies plc - Chairman & CEO Well, first of all, yes, you have a good point on the R&D. You'd have to probably add about $300 million, my best guess, if you think about sort of all the engineering and product resources, management resources to get you closer to $0.5 billion in the number itself. Like the product growth teams, if you elevated up at the enterprise or company level, what we're trying to do is really always remain a top-quartile EPS grower and a top quartile cash flow ROIC company. And the equivalent from a PGT -- that team is trying to grow market share and margin, we're trying to grow EPS and cash flow ROIC. And fortunately, we haven't had to make these choices, which was a point I was trying to make in my comments at the beginning. It's not a binary choice. If we're approving new product development or new technology introduction at 25% incrementals or better, if we're approving IT projects or supply chain projects or any productivity project at that level or better, we're not having to make a difficult choice between the 2. So I would say that you'll continue to see our investment in engineering and R&D probably grow at approximately the same rate as historically has been the case. It may tweak up a little bit in any given year if there are enough projects that we can execute in a given year. I mean some projects are more expensive than others. I mean major refrigerant changes in the HVAC business might provide a need to invest more sooner in that regard. But generally speaking, I would look for the same percentage spend across the board. Jeffrey Todd Sprague - Vertical Research Partners, LLC - Founder & Managing Partner Yes. And I guess as a natural follow-up to that then, Mike. I mean you've said in the past, right, that your incrementals are kind of governed by your gross margins, which mathematically makes sense. It doesn't feel like this effort is really kind of increasing your leverage, right? I mean we've got 600 or 700 basis points between gross margin and the targeted 25% or so incremental. Is there some other moving piece inside that? Maybe it's just labor inflation or health care or other things, but it would seem like the program would actually lift your incrementals because it's going to -- it should lift your gross margins also. 24 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 14, 2020 / 3:00PM, TT.N - Trane Technologies PLC Investor Briefing Michael W. Lamach - Trane Technologies plc - Chairman & CEO Yes. No. It does, Jeff. Clearly, it would over time, you'd expect that those could go up as your gross margins go up. And there's years that you're a little bit better and a little bit worse than that, I'm sure. But I just think that over a long period of time, and I'm talking like a decade, the reality of if you can be a top-quartile EPS grower and you could be a top quartile cash flow ROIC company, you're generally going to be sort of in that 10-plus percent EPS growth. You're generally going to be in that sort of 25% cash flow ROIC range. And that generally, in our equation, in our math, works out to just keep hammering 25% incremental margins and keep growing faster than the market and our competition. And if we can do that, then we can assure investors that we're always going to be targeting plans every year at a top quartile. And if you really go back and look at it over a long period of time, we've always been top-quartile EPS and cash flow ROIC through that. So the confidence -- the message today is the confidence that we can execute that going forward. We can outgrow the markets and we can at least maintain a 25% incremental margin going forward and turn it into cash and redeploy that. That's our message. Operator Your next question comes from Joel Tiss with BMO. Joel Gifford Tiss - BMO Capital Markets Equity Research - MD & Senior Research Analyst All right. Sorry to pile on with all the acquisition questions but maybe just a different flavor. Are there any technologies that could really advance you guys even if it's smaller stuff? Like can you give us a sense of what technologies you guys are pursuing or looking for like in kind of a 3- to 5-year time frame that could really become relevant? Michael W. Lamach - Trane Technologies plc - Chairman & CEO Yes. I'd say anything that would take 1 pound of greenhouse gas emissions out of the atmosphere related to HVAC and refrigeration and anything that could reduce a lot of energy going into a building would be an area for us. And if I tell you any more than that, I'm probably telling you what the 200 projects look like but they all look like that. But that's fundamentally what we're after, 1 of 2 things: reduce the energy intensity of the world, reduce greenhouse gas emissions in the world related to what we know how to do, and that is around HVAC refrigeration, how buildings operate, how people interact with buildings. That's what we know how to do. Yes. And as I said earlier, we've been very successful in the past with expanding our heat pump capability with thermal coal and also the electrification in our TK business. So Thermo King follows the same logic, where it's reducing the energy intensity of transport refrigeration, reduced greenhouse gas emissions, but it's also the added piece of really increasing the yield in the cold chain, whether that's through the vaccine. And so we've found ourselves in interesting areas there. We've acquired integrated telematics businesses in the past. We've gotten involved with auxiliary power units and developed a market-leading position there. And so the same formula works in the TK business. Operator Your next question comes from Deane Dray with RBC Capital Markets. Deane Michael Dray - RBC Capital Markets, Research Division - MD of Multi-Industry & Electrical Equipment & Analyst Vaccine distribution has come up a couple of different times today. And was hoping to get some more specifics. I think in Dave's answer, he cited the capability of handling -70 C. That happens to be the Pfizer requirement. Moderna is not quite as extreme at 20 -- -20 C. But Mike, can you share with us what role Trane will play? Do you have sufficient capacity? Have you gone through the scenario analysis and what kind of demand? Anything there would be really helpful. 25 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 14, 2020 / 3:00PM, TT.N - Trane Technologies PLC Investor Briefing David S. Regnery - Trane Technologies plc - President & COO I'll start. This is Dave. Obviously, we're very happy to see, as I'm sure everyone on the phone is happy to see, that the distribution of the vaccines is starting. And we're -- at Trane Technologies, we're just glad to be part of that. And anything we could do to help and get this vaccine distributed or these vaccines distributed as quick as possible, that's our aim right now. And we want to be able to get this in every corner of the world as fast as possible to help save lives. That said, you kind of hit on it. There's lots of different vaccines that are in development right now. And they require different temperature control, anything from the deep freeze, which is what the Pfizer vaccine is, which is 70 C to just general pharmaceutical, which is 2 C to 8 C. We participate in the entire cold chain so we have solutions that meet all of those requirements. Where we see specific opportunities is number one is air. A lot of these vaccines will be distributed by air, different points in the globe, and we see that as an opportunity. We also see the cold storage, and that was the -- really the innovative invention that our Thermo King team was able to create and took a product that had been in the market for a number of years and repurposed it. I mean the product we repurposed was one that was used to serve a very niche market. It was for distribution of sushi around the globe. So with flash freeze, the sushi, to ensure the integrity of it. We repurposed that. Now we have a refrigerated container that's able to help with this vaccine distribution. Michael W. Lamach - Trane Technologies plc - Chairman & CEO There were 3 areas that we were worried about initially. One was air cargo and entered a partnership with ]. We've been able to make sure that sufficient capacity is there. The other one, as Dave mentioned, was cold storage but at volumes, and so a 20-foot unit for us to hold 60,000 vials, and that's 360,000 or more doses. And if you think about that going out into an area where there might be a pop-up hospital or a lack of infrastructure and you might need to use power or use a generator, which is bolted on one end of the container, that's a pretty big solution for situations like that. So we're bolstering that as well as providing additional capacity for server -- for cold storage farms by some of the 3PLs. The third one, and we worry about it but it's becoming a little less to worry about is just the ability of last-mile deliveries in some of the small truck. But I think lots and lots of will be moved via small truck. And at that point in time, where it is moved through small truck, it's probably going to be later in the vaccine distribution cycle. So although it will be urgent, I don't think it will be as critical at that point. But getting mass vaccinations out to these sites, we've got the density of 5,000 people at a time waiting for inoculation, which is you think about the ability to administer shots within 6 hours of room temperature, you're looking for that kind of critical mass. That's the sort of areas that we looked at the breakpoints and thought like the deep freeze cold storage was the biggest issue, and that's where we really beefed up capacity. We developed a product and beefed up the capacity to be able to supply to customers, countries, et cetera, that need that capability. Deane Michael Dray - RBC Capital Markets, Research Division - MD of Multi-Industry & Electrical Equipment & Analyst That's really helpful. I appreciate all the efforts there. And then as a follow-up, just in terms o your perspective today, Mike, on how COVID is changing landscape on nonres construction, your discussions with office building owners. Just in terms of renovation or upgrades but also new building, how has COVID changed in terms of density of the floors? And does this in any way change what your commercial opportunity is? Michael W. Lamach - Trane Technologies plc - Chairman & CEO Yes. It's going to be evolving, as you can imagine. We've all figured out that really creative activity, whether it's brainstorming around strategy or doing a new product development, those kinds of interactions, very difficult to do online. And so at some point in time, I think you're going to find gravity back toward physical presences, albeit more distance, more careful with additional indoor air quality or environmental quality, devices and systems being implemented in buildings, probably more visuals that -- or ability for occupants, employees and buildings or tenants to look and 26 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 14, 2020 / 3:00PM, TT.N - Trane Technologies PLC Investor Briefing see the quality -- into air quality of the building to be able to sort of measure that and dashboard that in a way that we can see that it's safe. I think you'll see people marketing that in terms of landlords looking to market available space. That will also be a condition. But I would see that there's going to be probably some level of fundamental shift in who can work remote or at least some sort of future of work that would be different than people needing to be constantly always be in office buildings. But the reality is you still going to need the space. And if nothing more, then people are going to be a bit less densely occupying those spaces going forward. So at this point in time, we really don't think that there's going to be, say, a change in space, if you will. But there'll be, I would say, heavier content of indoor air quality into the budgets of customers that are operating in these spaces. David S. Regnery - Trane Technologies plc - President & COO Yes. I would say one thing that has changed is, especially in the commercial office space, is in the past, we would -- we're talking to our customers about indoor air quality. And they kind of look at us like we're not a hospital, and we've explained to them the need. And with a hard sell, I would tell you that our customers are now coming to us asking about the indoor air quality, what solutions we could build in from the inception of the building versus us having a harder sell. Michael W. Lamach - Trane Technologies plc - Chairman & CEO No doubt, Deane, you see a lot more retail space available for lease in a couple of years ahead. I mean you look at sort of 30% of small businesses probably having a tough time emerging from this. But that's something that we've tried to deemphasize over the years in favor of data centers and warehouses and e-commerce generally speaking. And so that will have an impact, but certainly not as large an impact as we would have a decade ago. Operator Your next question comes from Markus Mittermaier with UBS. Markus M. H. Mittermaier - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division - Head & US Equity Research Analyst of Americas Electrical Equipment and Multi Industry Research Maybe if I could come back to the operational transformation. The $160 million between repositioned IT and supply chain, could you split that out a little bit? And then when it comes to a supply chain, what's the total pool? You've mentioned kind of 80 different categories, but what's the saving number out of the total pool size? Ray Pittard - Trane Technologies plc - Former President of Transport Solutions - North America, Europe, Middle East & Africa Yes. Thank you, Markus. This is Ray Pittard. I'll take that. I think the bigger piece, the majority or larger piece is on the supply chain side. Obviously, that addresses a very large direct and indirect spend for us. The IT transformation is really material, though, in the sense that it addresses the applications, in particular that we use across the company. So there's a lot of work and opportunity to be done there that gives us ability to pivot towards our customers and our front-end systems. All of that helps to drive the growth profile that we've been talking about this morning. A little deeper on the supply chain side, I think the 80 categories are strategic categories, and this is a prioritization we're going through to set up waves around these. And we're trying to apply these new tools and analytic approaches that we've talked about to these categories. And it really enables us to not only get a better value capture but also with the cycle reduction that we talked about, it gives us the ability to go with more throughput. The net effect of that is it creates a great engine for us over time on the productivity side that really secures an even higher level or a stronger level of productivity on a long-term basis. So hopefully, that answers your question. 27 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 14, 2020 / 3:00PM, TT.N - Trane Technologies PLC Investor Briefing Markus M. H. Mittermaier - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division - Head & US Equity Research Analyst of Americas Electrical Equipment and Multi Industry Research Okay, great. And what would be the total spend across these 80 categories? Can you say that? Ray Pittard - Trane Technologies plc - Former President of Transport Solutions - North America, Europe, Middle East & Africa The total direct and indirect spend, it's all of our material spend and all of our indirect spend. Chris, do you have the... Christopher J. Kuehn - Trane Technologies plc - Senior VP & CFO Not handy right now. Ray Pittard - Trane Technologies plc - Former President of Transport Solutions - North America, Europe, Middle East & Africa We'll come back to you on that. Markus M. H. Mittermaier - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division - Head & US Equity Research Analyst of Americas Electrical Equipment and Multi Industry Research I'll follow up later. Yes. And then maybe not to beat IAQ to death, but just wondering on retrofit versus new installs. Is there any sort of change to the urgency that you've seen among your customers since the vaccine in terms of (inaudible) and is that something that you think long term is more opportunity in the new install side? Or has that urgency not changed at all? Ray Pittard - Trane Technologies plc - Former President of Transport Solutions - North America, Europe, Middle East & Africa Well, the urgency is completely on the existing building side. Anybody occupying or the ones that occupy building right now has got a lot of urgency around trying to get a day 1 solution and a road map for the future. I think that what you'll see on new construction and even buildings that are in construction now is a rethinking of the standards going into the building. And I believe that what you'll see is when you think about a standard for a building, you could have a range. One of the typical ranges would be the number of air changes per hour for a building that's designed for a typical use. A restaurant might have a range of 8 to 12 air changes per hour. You're going to find people moving toward the upper end of these ranges. And you're going to find more designs that don't have -- in parts of the world that don't have standards implementing standards. And eventually, I think you'll see more of these standards be adopted as codes, although that takes more time. But I would expect that standards will be followed and upgraded and probably leaning towards the higher end of each of these standards, particularly in Western Europe, the U.S., Japan, China, most of the developed parts of the world. Operator Your next question comes from Steve Volkmann with Jefferies. Stephen Edward Volkmann - Jefferies LLC, Research Division - Equity Analyst I kind of want to go back to Jeff's question a little bit. I mean you stressed the 25% incrementals over time. But as we think about all the things you're doing on service, new product acquisitions, all those seem like higher-margin opportunities and then you have the cost saves. So I guess 28 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 14, 2020 / 3:00PM, TT.N - Trane Technologies PLC Investor Briefing I'm trying to figure out, above the 25% incrementals, do you just kind of automatically reinvest the upside, and that drives faster growth over time? Or is there an opportunity over time to deliver higher incrementals? Christopher J. Kuehn - Trane Technologies plc - Senior VP & CFO Yes. Great question. And absolutely, there's no sort of one that we would expect to be above and below the basis what needs to be done in the long haul for the business, investment in the business for the long haul. So there's not a meter on that, right? If we get 27% incremental margins, we're not going to immediately pivot toward reinvestment. That's not the point. We really want to run the whole P&L on the balance sheet holistically as a system. But we just want to give investors confidence that we can outgrow the market, we can outgrow our competitors and we can do that at least at a 25% incremental going forward. So I expect there's years that we'll do better than that. And potentially, there's years that we could do a little bit less than that, as we saw with the tariff increases a couple of years ago. That was a difficult situation for all companies at that time to react to. But there's no hard, fast sort of pivot binary points that we stop one and start the other. We think we can do both at the same time. Stephen Edward Volkmann - Jefferies LLC, Research Division - Equity Analyst Got it. Okay. And then a slightly different topic, but you guys have a little bit more of a hybrid distribution model than some others. I'm just curious how you think about that over time. Is it more company-owned or less company-owned? Just any thoughts on that direction. Michael W. Lamach - Trane Technologies plc - Chairman & CEO Well, just to be clear, commercial HVAC, I would say we've got a direct model. Thermo King, we're 100% indirect model. We don't have any reason to change that. We want to -- we think the Thermo King dealers do a great job. That's our model. And we think that the HVAC commercial business being direct, that's our model. The only place we have a hybrid model is in the residential area, which is about 50-50. And the rationale there is, look, we're after the best combination of market share and margin improvement. And if a tenant does a better job there, we're going to go with that. And if we can do a better job in a given location, we're going to go with that. And occasionally, we'll make a change. We'll move independent to company-owned or we'll move from company-owned to an independent. It's not that common, but we do on occasion do that. But our motives there are strictly around market share and margin expansion in our residential business only. Operator Your next question comes from Chris Dankert with Longbow Research. Christopher M. Dankert - Longbow Research LLC - Research Analyst I guess could you break down the opportunity for SaaS monitoring controls, automation versus kind of more traditional equipment? And should we think about these connected solutions growing at kind of a double-digit pace in core equipment more GDP, GDP plus? Or is that not the right way to think about it? Michael W. Lamach - Trane Technologies plc - Chairman & CEO Well, the connected building business is growing at an incredible growth rate. I've lost track of that rate. It was almost approaching 100% over the last 3 years. I mean it was coming off a small base but dramatically increasing. I would expect that to accelerate. But the way we think about monetizing that is across a number of areas of the value chain, right? It's a more productive way for us to be able to deliver service. It's a more 29 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 14, 2020 / 3:00PM, TT.N - Trane Technologies PLC Investor Briefing profitable way for us to sell service because we could capture the higher margin. It's a competitive advantage in that we can maybe do something that a competitor can't by feeling strongly that we can both model a building and keep the building operating through a model. And that's [what a lot] to a customer who wants to make sure that from an energy perspective and this cost of energy is maintaining best-in-class or at least targeted energy efficiency. That will increase their air quality as customers look to be relatively sure that the buildings have seen the amount of air changes per hour the building needs to see and that filters don't need to be changed, all that can be done remotely, right? Or even occupancy, we're able to change the profile of rooms or floors or areas of the building just based on occupancy of that floor. We can change the profile of how the system is operating. So those are all the ways that you monetize that. So there's no way for anybody to sort of put that into budget -- into buckets. And with all respect to my friend Chris over here, we don't want to pay finance people to do that. Christopher M. Dankert - Longbow Research LLC - Research Analyst No. Fair. And then not to put too fine a point on it but just to summarize, I suppose, you're saying that the trend in work from home is going to be really swamped by this ongoing megatrend of urbanization and kind of the change in workforce. Is that the right way to think about it? Michael W. Lamach - Trane Technologies plc - Chairman & CEO Yes. First of all, I think work from home is going to work with some job sometimes, not everybody. I think buildings will be less densely occupied and then got to norm. And I think urbanization works at all. And urbanization is driving a lot of the problems that we see in the world in our greenhouse gas emissions, be it through HVAC in buildings, transport refrigeration, full chain loss, et cetera. So no, you're right on both accounts. Operator There are no further questions at this time. I will now turn the call back over to Zac Nagle for closing remarks. Zachary A. Nagle - Trane Technologies plc - VP of IR Once again, I'd like to thank everyone for joining the call today. As always, Shane and I will be available to take any questions that you have today or in the coming days. I'd also like -- I also have a request. We have a survey link in the appendix of the presentation on Slide 51. If you could take a couple of minutes and fill that out, we truly appreciate it. And lastly, if we don't chat sooner, I'd like to wish everyone a very happy and healthy holiday season. Thank you. Operator Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes today's conference call. Thank you for participating. You may now disconnect. 30 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 14, 2020 / 3:00PM, TT.N - Trane Technologies PLC Investor Briefing DISCLAIMER Refinitiv reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes. In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized. THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES REFINITIV OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS. 2020, Refinitiv. All Rights Reserved. 13537426-2020-12-14T23:29:54.610 31 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 14, 2020 / 3:00PM, TT.N - Trane Technologies PLC Investor Briefing
REFINITIV STREETEVENTS EDITED TRANSCRIPT CDW.OQ - CDW Corp at Raymond James Technology Investors Conference (Virtual) EVENT DATE/TIME: DECEMBER 09, 2020 / 1:50PM GMT REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS Christine A. Leahy CDW Corporation - President, CEO & Director Collin B. Kebo CDW Corporation - Senior VP & CFO CONFERENCE CALL PARTICIPANTS Adam Tyler Tindle Raymond James & Associates, Inc., Research Division - Senior Research Associate PRESENTATION Adam Tyler Tindle - Raymond James & Associates, Inc., Research Division - Senior Research Associate Okay. Thanks, and good morning. My name is Adam Tindle. I cover the IT supply chain, security software and connected devices here at Raymond James. Very happy to have the team from CDW. Many of you know CDW as one of the world's largest IT reseller and solution providers. We have Chris Leahy, CEO; Collin Kebo, CFO. And in terms of the format, we'll just keep it somewhat casual, full fireside, no formal slides. Obviously, if you'd like to view CDW's presentation, it will be available on their IR website. And for the audience, if you do have questions during this, please, in the upper left-hand corner of your screen, you'll see a Question button. Feel free to use that. That will send an e-mail over to me, and I'll work your question into our conversation. Alternatively, you can just e-mail me directly, adam.tindle, T-I-N-D-L-E, @raymondjames.com. QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS Adam Tyler Tindle - Raymond James & Associates, Inc., Research Division - Senior Research Associate So with that, Chris, I wanted to start with you just on kind of demand environment near term. Thanks, again, for joining our conference. And CDW is a very broad company. It represents over 100,000 products and solutions for more than 1,000 vendor partners. So a broad view across many areas of tech that investors care about. Just starting at a high level, then we'll get to some company-specific questions. Over the course of 2020, maybe just take us through what you've observed from the perspective of customer budgets, prioritization of product mix and how that's changed recently. Christine A. Leahy - CDW Corporation - President, CEO & Director Just want to get off mute there. Thank you. Thanks, and good morning, Adam. It's great to see you, and thank you, everybody, for joining us this morning. We appreciate you being here with us. I've been tasked with the safe harbor warning. So just as a reminder, we'll be talking as of our third quarter call, anything we said on the call or prior. So let's talk about what happened this year. Everybody knows this has raised unprecedented challenges for customers and, in my view, has really demonstrated that technology has become an absolutely essential part of a customer's ability to operate, a customer's ability to compete, a customer's ability to grow, to win, to achieve their mission, whatever that might be. And if we think back to the onset of the pandemic, CDW was able to orchestrate remote work and business continuity solutions for our customers. That was really the thrust at the beginning of the year in terms of getting people to work from home and, even very quickly after that, remote learning in some places across the world. 2 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 09, 2020 / 1:50PM, CDW.OQ - CDW Corp at Raymond James Technology Investors Conference (Virtual) As we've progressed through the year, our customers have been really in various phases of responding to the macro environment. It depends on the geography. It depends on the industry. It depends on the state mandates that are going on, and whether things are opening or closing. So some customers have actually remained focused on remote enablement and operational continuity and keeping their businesses alive and surviving. And others have been moving forward with organizational enablement and operational continuity, very focused on performance, very focused on cost pressures and managing those, while others are moving forward with efficiency and optimization and digital transformation, including the cloud. And that last bucket, the digital transformation, we have many customers who very early on recognized the advantage that they could gain if they were already advanced, or the advantage they could gain if they advance quickly. So again, some of those customers started quite early focusing on digital journeys, if you will, and others are just getting to that. The other thing, I guess, I would mention is, and we mentioned this on our third quarter call, customer demand for Software as a Service increased almost 50% quarter-on-quarter. So customers leveraged our cloud solutions' capabilities, which were further bolstered by our acquisition of IGNW, which we did at the beginning of the third quarter. And that's our cloud-native capability of professional services around what we call digital velocity. In Q3, we did see some customers resume projects that had been put on hold earlier in the year and started new projects, the kind of infrastructure projects -- the legacy infrastructure projects had been paused. And what customers have been doing, and some moving forward, some still planning, or what are the road maps of their future? How do they consider how cloud does fold into their larger strategy? What is the digital experience of the future that they're trying to give to their employees and to their customers? So there's a new term I've heard our VPs of sales saying very (inaudible) and very strongly and repetitively, and that's our customers bring us their problems, not their part numbers. And I'll tell you, that's never been more true this year. Customers need help. They can't get it all done. They're short-staffed. It's getting more complicated, and we've just seen that pick up as this year has gone on. Adam Tyler Tindle - Raymond James & Associates, Inc., Research Division - Senior Research Associate Yes. And I think we're all encouraged by the notion of projects potentially resuming. I know it's been a tough year for that side of the business and those types of vendors. I wanted to also ask, one of the highlights for CDW is a diversified set of customer verticals, right? You have a lot of offsetting levers that help you through different times on each side of the business. Maybe just what stands out from your observations by customer vertical in 2020? And how has that changed as the year progressed? Christine A. Leahy - CDW Corporation - President, CEO & Director Yes. Sure, Adam. Just as a reminder to everyone, we've got the 5 U.S. sales channels, which are our Corporate, our Small Business, our Government, Education and Healthcare businesses, all of which are substantial multibillion-dollar businesses. And our scale enables us to further align sales teams into vertical customer end markets. So for example, in Government, we've got federal government and state and local; and then Education, K-12 and higher education. Beyond that, I'd also say we then subsegment. So for example, in federal, we've got Department of Defense and civilian; in small business, we've got fast growth, VC-backed organizations, for example. So the scale allows us to get very, very intimate with the industry in which we're dealing. This obviously allows us to understand the industry and the business and be more and more intimate and knowledgeable about our customers. 3 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 09, 2020 / 1:50PM, CDW.OQ - CDW Corp at Raymond James Technology Investors Conference (Virtual) We also then have our Other, which is U.K. and Canada, and that's a couple of billion dollars in revenue together. The one thing I'd say about U.K. and Canada is we've developed those businesses in a similar fashion. So they are quite balanced in terms of their broad portfolio across the full IT life cycle and full spectrum. And equally, they are diversified across end markets. So both of those organizations also have a Public and a Corporate segment and then diversified within those segments. So what have we observed? Well, what's been interesting is, I'm not -- not necessarily surprising, but interesting is the Corporate and Small Business customers. Their ability, with our help and support and partnership, to adapt quickly in the microenvironment and really pivot their IT strategies to operate so well in a remote environment, that would never have happened 10 years ago. That would never have happened if it was just a mandate from the CEO. But the pandemic really lit the fire, and people were able to shift enormously quickly. In the public sector, what's really been significant and amplified is the equity and access across our Education customers. And that has been at the forefront for the past 18 months or so, but that really is heightened, especially in the world we live in, with the focus on social justice amplifying as well. And then on the Government side, real resiliency of those customers, along with the U.S. Census' undertaking. When you think about the political stage we were on this year and having to get that massive project completed and completed well according to our service-level agreements with the U.S. Census, critically important project, that really does stand out because both our customer, the U.S. Census Bureau and CDW, I think -- and all the partners involved did a fantastic job. Healthcare customers have been really is interesting because they're spending where they need to in areas like security and software. Certainly, telehealth has been a demand driver, but it's been a bit of a shift in budgets. The income streams for large hospital organizations are still just battered. And so they're doing what they need to. I certainly expect the virtual care to be a driver of demand in the future, but we're going to have to wait and see what happens over the next 6 months or so with the pandemic and the stress on the hospital systems. And as I said just a minute ago, Adam, we've really seen several phases that our customers have worked through, the remote enablement and operational continuity. And certainly, in March and April, some customers still working on this, and then as I mentioned, the organizational efficiency and optimization. And that's where customers are focused on, what's my hybrid model, what's the security, how can I save cost because everybody is under cost pressure. And then just digital transformation, which has accelerated dramatically, customers investing for their future and fundamentally changing how they engage with and work with their employees and interact with their customers. So as I said, technology certainly has risen to the forefront. It's more essential in every sector of the economy and will play an increasingly important role going forward, and we're excited about that. Adam Tyler Tindle - Raymond James & Associates, Inc., Research Division - Senior Research Associate Yes. That's helpful. I'm going to ask one more on just kind of high level, and then we're going to get down to some CDW specifics. But here across this conference, we've had a lot of questions on the device market, you play front and center there, and supply challenges, things that are going on. For you, remote enablement moderated in the Corporate segment. I think transactional was down double digit in your September quarter after a very strong run. We then heard from some of the PC OEMs with strong October quarter, suggesting backlog is elevated, expecting demand to outpace supply through the first half of 2021. Just wondering if you could maybe comment on that disconnect and just general thoughts on the sustainability of growth in the PC market. Christine A. Leahy - CDW Corporation - President, CEO & Director Yes, Adam, thanks for that question. And just a couple of things. First of all, it's a little bit of apples-to-oranges comparison, given there's a lag from when we sell client devices and when the OEMs replenish their inventory. So you've got to remember that. That's the first thing. 4 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 09, 2020 / 1:50PM, CDW.OQ - CDW Corp at Raymond James Technology Investors Conference (Virtual) And then when you just think about the performance and the demand from Q3 '19 through Q2 of '20, we saw a 20% growth in notebook units for our Corporate and Small Business customers. So the OEM shipments you're hearing about now are effectively replenishing. They are lower levels of inventory further downstream in the supply chain that have been depleted. So I think about it that way. And I would also note in the third quarter that, notwithstanding the transactional performance, we did still continue to have strength across notebooks. But as we think about the future growth of PCs, I guess a couple of factors to consider, as we always like to say, if you were the tailwinds. Well, I continue to believe we're going to see new use cases. And we're seeing that with the retail stores and providing tablets across multiple retail industries, if you will, for the employees to work digitally in their digital environment and their e-commerce environment. The other thing is the earlier Win 10 adopters are starting their refresh stage now. So we are starting to see that. Obviously, I'd say, this year, we did have tremendous demand pull-forward in Q1 and Q2 due to the urgent need of the remote devices. And we had -- because of the K-12 focus on -- a device in every student's hand, we also saw a significant pull forward in the Education space as well. So look, I think it's early to tell the impact on remote working and e-learning will have on client devices. But I do think we will continue to see work from home, play from home, live from home, learn from home, all these things are going to end up in a hybrid world, which means more use on the PC, which might mean more tighter refresh cycles and, frankly, also more productivity needed out of coworkers. So again, innovation cycles will continue to reflect that. Adam Tyler Tindle - Raymond James & Associates, Inc., Research Division - Senior Research Associate I want to get into some of the growth initiatives that you've talked about and outlined and kind of break them down one by one. The first one that comes up is capture share and acquire new customers. It's one of the 3-part strategies for growth. Just curious, as you think about this part, talk about the key drivers of this strategy, given new customer acquisition via competitive displacement seems like a tough task to an outsider. For example, your customer tenure, I think, is just over a decade on average. So some of the key drivers to that strategy. Christine A. Leahy - CDW Corporation - President, CEO & Director Yes. Sure, Adam. And when you think about our 3-part strategy, how they work together, so you mentioned acquiring new customers and capture share and then the second -- the second prong is enhance our solutions capabilities and the third is expand our services capabilities. So I'd say a couple of things. Number one, our ability to enhance our solutions capabilities and expand the services capabilities are key drivers in our ability to acquire new customers. Because as technologies become more complex and will continue to do so, customers are demanding more from their IT solutions provider, given their limited resources. It's getting more complex. I've always said complexity is our friend. It's not our customers' friend. It's our friend. So because we continue to evolve our offering and our technology capabilities, that positions us really in a differentiated way from our competitors, and our value proposition is just much stronger in our view. So they look to leverage our scale, our distribution and logistics capabilities, as I said, our diverse product and services offering and across the full IT life cycle. So when you think about wanting a one-stop shop, a single IT trusted partner that you can go to, to kind of help simplify everything, from advice, design, to building to implementing to integrating to managing, we provide that to the customer. And I really think that's a differentiator. I always think our -- the durable value of our proposition is that, while technology evolves, we evolve with it. And our customers know that. So as they think forward, they know we're going to be there where they need and meet them where they need. So that even adds to the trusted relationship. 5 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 09, 2020 / 1:50PM, CDW.OQ - CDW Corp at Raymond James Technology Investors Conference (Virtual) Adam Tyler Tindle - Raymond James & Associates, Inc., Research Division - Senior Research Associate Yes. And I guess near term on the acquired new customers' initiative, you did talk about seeing healthy growth from new customers during peak uncertainty this year, during the Q2 earnings call. What were the key reasons that those customers came to CDW? And any update on observations? I know it's early, but the stickiness of those customers. Christine A. Leahy - CDW Corporation - President, CEO & Director Yes. Adam, the -- we're continuing to see that trend I talked about. That was a flight to quality. All of the competitive advantages that I've mentioned, from what our scale offers to our logistics capabilities to the breadth and depth of our portfolio and expertise. There is just a desire to be with a company that has got the oomph, the weight, the financial wherewithal behind them, and then also the full spectrum to start -- to really figure out digital transformation because it's accelerating so quickly. There's some study out there, 85% of CEOs say that digital transformation is the #1 change that they expect to stick in this pandemic. And so every CTO, every CIO is under pressure to get it right. I mean that has become more important than ever, get it right and get it fast. And so that suggests come to CDW. Remember, I think on the earnings call, I talked about a customer that was working with a partner and they just could not get it right. And the director was under pressure, called us. We delivered very quickly, exceeded their expectations. And I'll tell you, when you help somebody in a pinch like this, those folks generally become customers for life because you really help them in a pinch, and the trust starts up several notches. So we have great confidence that those customers will be sticky, and we've seen many of them where we've expanded our -- expanding our opportunities with them already. Adam Tyler Tindle - Raymond James & Associates, Inc., Research Division - Senior Research Associate Yes. The second initiative that we talked about was enhanced capabilities in high-growth solutions areas. I know these kind of work together a little bit. But just zooming in on this one, as I think about this initiative, I think about capabilities, tuck-ins. You mentioned IGNW. There's Aptris, Scalar. Just curious what have been the key learnings as you now have a few of those under your belt? And talk about the framework for go-forward opportunities. Christine A. Leahy - CDW Corporation - President, CEO & Director Yes. Sure. So Adam, the most recent acquisitions, IGNW, expands our cloud-native professional services portfolio, as I mentioned. And Aptris is an elite ServiceNow partner. And then Scaler expanded our kind of balance of offerings in Canada, and they've got a very robust solutions portfolio. So key learnings. Well, I might sound repetitive, but it really is the key theme that customers have growing needs across the IT life cycle, and they're looking for their IT solutions provider to meet and need -- meet across the entire life cycle. And sometimes, I just -- I talk about CDW in terms of our talent, technology and trust, right? We've got our talent. We've got the world-class sales organization, and we continue to evolve them. We've got best-in-class technology expertise. We've got the best-in-class leadership. And then we have the technology across the full spectrum and the full IT life cycle and brand choice so that we can bring to the customer the best in breed across the full stack, meaning cloud and services and software and hardware. And then trust. Our customers really -- they trust our judgment. They trust our intent. We're not selling them. We're bringing them what is going to work for them in their business. And they trust the service quality that we offer, and our ability to execute. As we go forward, what we're finding and learning specifically from M&A is we're going to focus on these capabilities. We have proven that we can find great companies with great talent, with great cultures and integrate them fairly seamlessly into the organization. And our -- most importantly, 6 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 09, 2020 / 1:50PM, CDW.OQ - CDW Corp at Raymond James Technology Investors Conference (Virtual) our sales organization is quite excited when we bring in these capabilities because all that does is enhance their ability to solve problems for our customers. Adam Tyler Tindle - Raymond James & Associates, Inc., Research Division - Senior Research Associate Yes. Makes sense. I'm going to ask a question on the third and then tie another question in on the second and the third after this one. So the third initiative is enhanced service capabilities. And you've invested -- you have a slide that I always remember seeing. I think it's over 3,000 technical coworkers really shifted the composition of customer-facing coworkers to approach, I think, about half that are more presales specialists and services delivery resources versus just sellers. Maybe just talk about the processes and systems that CDW has put in place to leverage those resources. Christine A. Leahy - CDW Corporation - President, CEO & Director Yes. Sure, Adam. So it's one thing to add that many technical coworkers, and it's another to have them work hand-in-glove so well with your sales organization. So just for quick context, we usually have an account manager or a dedicated account manager who's the quarterback, call it, aligned to these -- the sales channels. And those account managers are supported by the field sellers who are, in person, the technical organization where we've got the specialist and advanced service delivery engineers, which you referenced. And some portions of those are presale. Delivery engineers often can actually be on the presale side as well. And those solutions -- they specialize in areas within the hybrid infrastructure and digital experience. So while our sellers have obviously very strong knowledge of IT broadly, they bring in the technical resources across the organization to support them. And what I would say is our go-to-market, I always say, is evergreen. And the power of CDW and one of the derivatives of our scale is the ability to continually tweak and refine our go-to-market. And in this case, so we've got our frontline sellers, and we've got the technical specialists lined up, whether it's by geography, whether it's by category, whether it's by IT opportunity within the customer, we're very prescriptive about how that go-to-market works. So we get the right resources on the right opportunity at the right time. You also know we've invested heavily in our digital capabilities for seller tools, and that's another thing on the technology side. Think about customer resource management, being nimble and optimized in that area also helps speed and opportunity identification and capture in a very big way. So those are some of the things that we've done to help drive the technical capabilities into the sales organization and then accessed out to our customers. Adam Tyler Tindle - Raymond James & Associates, Inc., Research Division - Senior Research Associate Yes. I'm going to ask one more line of questions, and then Collin has been sitting patiently there. So we'll pick on you next, Collin. With both services and solutions investments, those kind of last 2 that we talked about, just curious, Chris, is incremental growth primarily coming from share of wallet with existing customers? Or is this primarily leading to new customer acquisition opportunities? And maybe the second part of that would be what the competitive landscape looks like in those engagements versus more traditional transactional business? Christine A. Leahy - CDW Corporation - President, CEO & Director Yes. Look, our organic and inorganic investments in services and solutions has certainly strengthened our value prop to customers, and it's resonated well with incremental growth opportunity existing in both new customers and our current customers. But it is easier to roll out new offerings to customers that already leverage CDW as a trusted adviser in their IT strategy. So we do see more incremental growth from within existing customers. As far as the competitive landscape, look, it's highly fragmented with, as you know, regional and specialized peers as well as some of the integrated -- larger, excuse me, integrated service providers out there. But we just believe we continue to differentiate ourselves through the technical expertise 7 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 09, 2020 / 1:50PM, CDW.OQ - CDW Corp at Raymond James Technology Investors Conference (Virtual) we bring and the unbiased advice, as I mentioned, and just our history of always putting the customer in the center of everything we do. So we take advantage of the fragmented environment and particularly in the circumstances we find ourselves in, in this year. Adam Tyler Tindle - Raymond James & Associates, Inc., Research Division - Senior Research Associate Thanks, Chris. Collin, just continuing on the topic of solutions. Chris has talked a lot about some of the qualitative investments that CDW has made. CDW also discloses a few different quantitative buckets that allow us insight into this, into the success of this. Maybe just to start, how do you look at these metrics internally? How should we best analyze this? Collin B. Kebo - CDW Corporation - Senior VP & CFO Sure. Thanks, Adam, for having us. We do disclose a couple of different metrics. Historically, our definition of solutions and transactions has been a segmentation along product lines. So just definitionally, in our solutions business, that would include all software, all services, and then hardware in the data center, server storage networking, colllab hardware and things like that. Just as an aside, I think one of the limitations of segmenting by product is solutions like the Census offering, or what we're doing for the Mississippi Department of Education, skews primarily to the transaction part of the business. I think it would be hard to argue that, that really isn't an integrated solution for the customer. But notwithstanding that, historically, the net revenue from the solutions part of the business has been in the 40% to 45% range. Now the gross profit from the solutions business is higher than that. We've talked before about agent revenue or the 100% gross margin netted-down percentage of the business, that would all be sitting in the solutions business, and that was 30% of gross profit in our most recent quarter. And again, that would not be captured in gross profit from the solutions business that sits on solutions hardware and software licenses. And then, I guess, the last point I'd make is from an operating margin perspective. While the solutions part of the business tends to have higher gross margins, it does have a higher cost to serve because of those technical resources that Chris was talking about earlier. So the delta isn't quite as great as the operating margin, as you might think. In terms of what we look at internally, we look at a variety of measures, what our customers are spending with us, what the net sales are and then what the gross profit from that is. And we compare all of those to how the market is doing, and we expect to grow faster across all of those versus the market. And then, again, we focus on the operating margin line and how those solutions, gross profit dollars are converting to operating profit and making sure we're doing it in an efficient way. Adam Tyler Tindle - Raymond James & Associates, Inc., Research Division - Senior Research Associate Okay. And as I looked in the Ks and the Qs, there's kind of 2 buckets that we look at there: number one is agent revenue, number two is principal revenue transferred over time. As you think about those buckets, investors are kind of curious what it ties to -- how much of that ties to PCs or device sales? How much is more pure cloud or services sales? So maybe just across those buckets that investors are looking as more kind of recurring-type revenue streams. How much is more PC device tied? How much is more pure cloud or services tied? Collin B. Kebo - CDW Corporation - Senior VP & CFO Yes. Sure, Adam. I'll start with the agent revenue. And again, this is -- from an accounting perspective, that part of the business that is accounted for is 100% gross margin, so the gross profit dollars equal to revenue dollars. And in that bucket, SaaS, Software as a Service, is the largest component, and it has been contributing the most growth recently. It also includes software assurance, commission revenue, so this is where we would be the agent on an enterprise agreement sale. And then it would include 8 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 09, 2020 / 1:50PM, CDW.OQ - CDW Corp at Raymond James Technology Investors Conference (Virtual) warranties. And within warranties, that can be both on the client device part of the business. But a big part of the warranty business is on the infrastructure solutions hardware part of the business. And then finally, it includes services delivered by third parties, where CDW doesn't have the coworkers, and we would engage another party. It excludes CDW-delivered services. So our managed services, our professional services business would not be included in that. So when you think about that bucket, the majority of it is tied to cloud or software. There is some portion on the warranties, again, that would be tied to the client device part of the business, but the most -- but the vast majority of it is related to software or the cloud part of the business. In terms of revenue recognized over time, it's around 4% to 5%. And that would be primarily where we are providing the services or professional services engagement and managed services engagement in the current year of the Census Device as a Service offering because it's recognized over time, but also be included in there. Adam Tyler Tindle - Raymond James & Associates, Inc., Research Division - Senior Research Associate Got it. That's very helpful. I want to ask about that Census Device as a Service. Maybe just for investors not as familiar, give us a quick recap of the Census deal, how it's different from a traditional sales motion. And has this created more interest across the broad customer base? Do you think this is a continuing trend or more of a one-off? Collin B. Kebo - CDW Corporation - Senior VP & CFO Yes. So this was different than the normal selling motion, just given the long lead time, as you can imagine. This was a multiyear effort to help the customer understand what capabilities we bring to bear, and then you go through the protest process and all those types of things. But ultimately, the Census Bureau concluded that we were the right partner, given our ability to bundle a solution from multiple OEMS, and our logistics capability and wrapped with services, et cetera. It's also unusual in the accounting for it. So we are accounting for this as a Device as a Service offering, where we are the lessor. So we acquired the devices using our balance sheet. We have -- recognizing the revenue from that over time. Just financially, to dimensionalize the impact, the project began flowing through our financial statements in 2019 and contributed roughly 60 basis points of net sales growth in 2019. This year, it'll be in the neighborhood of 180 basis points of incremental growth year-over-year. So in aggregate, approximately 230 basis points of our sales this year. And it has created interest from other customers. And I think, really, is a great proof point in terms of our capability to execute something of this scale and the complexity involved in it, and our ability to work with the customer as their requirements change over the course of this offering and wanted more devices in the field and they were delayed because of COVID, and all those types of things. And just as Chris talked about on our last earnings call, the work we're doing in the state of Mississippi and the Department of Education is it's structured differently but effectively meeting a need of getting a device as a solution with the logistics and the services capabilities wrapped around it. Adam Tyler Tindle - Raymond James & Associates, Inc., Research Division - Senior Research Associate Okay. Understood. I'm going to ask one more for Collin. I'm going to work in a couple of audience questions and then we'll close it out. So just a last call for any audience questions, please send those, top left-hand corner questions or adamtindle@raymondjames.com. Collin, cash flow has been a hallmark of CDW. I want to touch on capital allocation and what you do with the cash. There's a balance between share repurchase. You've been consistently increasing the dividend. You paid down debt. You've done M&A. So kind of a combination of many different things. Just talk about the process and how the company and the Board decides which method of capital return is appropriate. 9 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 09, 2020 / 1:50PM, CDW.OQ - CDW Corp at Raymond James Technology Investors Conference (Virtual) Collin B. Kebo - CDW Corporation - Senior VP & CFO Yes, sure. I mean even before we get to free cash flow, our preference is to invest back in the business. We think we have a great business model and -- where we can, and generate positive returns, we'll do that, and we will continue to do so. But once we get to free cash flow, our goal is to grow the dividend in line with earnings. We target a 25% payout ratio. Secondly, maintain our leverage within a 2.5 to 3x ratio. We were below that at the end of the third quarter at 1.8x. Third is M&A, and Chris talked a little bit about the filters earlier, then fourth is share repurchases. As we sit here today or sat there on September 30, given our strong liquidity position of 1.8x, our priorities are, as I said, organically invest in the business, M&A and share repurchases after we covered the dividend. We don't think paying down a big debt -- paying down debt is a big idea, just given how attractive interest rates are and given our strong cash flow generation. I do anticipate us moving closer to our range of 2.5 to 3x. Our preference would be to do it through M&A. We think it allows us to add capabilities and better serve customers. But we will -- if not enough opportunities come along that makes sense for us, we will -- we're comfortable returning more than 100% of free cash flow to shareholders through share repurchases and dividends, and we'll do so. Adam Tyler Tindle - Raymond James & Associates, Inc., Research Division - Senior Research Associate Yes. Makes sense. Chris, one of the questions that was asked on your comments about being closer to end-market demand relative to the OEMs was interesting. And the question was really around the data center uptick that you're seeing or project-oriented uptick that you're seeing. There's some debate over whether that data center recovery is going to be something imminent and continues, Q4, Q1 kind of a first half of 2020 big bounce back? Or is this back half of next year? Just at a high level, the question is mainly kind of the data center infrastructure projects. Does that trend that you're seeing initially really increase from here to the first half? Or is this still going to get pushed out to the back half? Christine A. Leahy - CDW Corporation - President, CEO & Director Yes. Adam, I'd say a couple of things. Number one, it depends. I hate to answer a question that way, but it does depend on the industry, the geo, as I mentioned before. The world we've lived in has really been uneven across the United States, for example, and then other countries, U.K. and Canada, depending on what's going on out there. But clearly, early on this year, I'd say the infrastructure projects really came to a bit of a screeching halt. And customers took those opportunities to get what they had to get done urgently, but then to reflect back with us and consider embracing cloud platforms, how that would work within their systems, given what they have to come out of the pandemic being, frankly, as an organization and whether or not they consider more outsourcing to managed service providers, or how they're going to modernize and build new applications to support their really evolved business models and then protect data at rest and on the move. So we have been working with them across the full stack, again, as I said, cloud services, software and hardware. Some of our customers are really on a tear and moving quickly. Others are -- we've got to get through this year-end budget cycle, frankly. You think about Corporate and Small Business, they're budgeting now. They're right in the middle of it. So I think we'll have a clearer picture going into next year. But certainly, it is an imperative, is what I would say, for customers modernizing their infrastructure -- hybrid infrastructure approach. Adam Tyler Tindle - Raymond James & Associates, Inc., Research Division - Senior Research Associate Yes. Another follow-up question. I think we often get asked a lot of the potential headwinds and bear case around PC market. This one is kind of flipping that on its head a little bit. We had Ken at Insight and Joyce Mullen, who came from Dell and is now at Insight yesterday, and they made some interesting points. And this is -- I promise this is a client question, not mine. It sounds like I'm preloading discussion, it's not. It's a good one. 10 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 09, 2020 / 1:50PM, CDW.OQ - CDW Corp at Raymond James Technology Investors Conference (Virtual) But if the PC market stays at 80-plus percent laptops, and because the point is that there's been a shift from desktop to laptop and, ultimately, refresh cycles end up shortening, could PCs actually be a tailwind for growth over the next few years? Maybe just zoom out to what the structural changes in the PC market and maybe give us a little bit of the bull case since we hear the bear case so often. Christine A. Leahy - CDW Corporation - President, CEO & Director Yes. Well, if those things were true, that would be an argument for growth. And some of the things that -- some of the trends that would play into that are things like the one-to-one device for students, right? That just expands the number. It's the very fast evolution in -- well, evolution is the right word, of the business models that we're seeing across industry to digital business models that require devices to actually operate. And I keep coming back to retail because they were very early on to start putting devices and more and more devices in the hands of their store employees to interact contactlessly with their customers. So there are lots of changes brought on by this hybrid expectation in the world, work from home, live from home, play from home, all of that, that absolutely could drive demand and growth in the PC world. Now Adam, I think the most important thing for us is, regardless of what customers need and are buying, we have the full spectrum. So we feel very confident in toggling to where our customers are in their purchase cycle and in their modernization cycle, and well positioned, as you know. You see how we manage the supply chain constraints over this past 2 years, really. If there is a tick up in the PC area, we feel very confident that we'll help our customers with that. Adam Tyler Tindle - Raymond James & Associates, Inc., Research Division - Senior Research Associate Yes. We're about out of time here. I know we've covered a broad variety of topics. So great job to you guys for bearing with me on all the different -- bouncing around the different topics. Chris, maybe just some closing remarks here, as a suggestion. Any closing remarks you want to provide? And also, what does CDW look like in 3 to 5 years? Christine A. Leahy - CDW Corporation - President, CEO & Director Thanks for that question, Adam. A couple of things. Just to reiterate, we really do believe that technology is now more essential. It is essential to all sectors of the economy and will play just in exponentially increasing importance through the next years ahead. We have great confidence that we have the right strategy in place to continue to evolve with the IT trends. And we will plan to continue investing in the capabilities that position us to serve our customers, all those things that I talked about. And we'll invest both here in the U.S., the U.K., and Canada and beyond, if it makes sense. I would just say that, look, as the highly interconnected and integrated technology ecosystem becomes more complex, which it is, we believe our role as a trusted strategic partner to customers will be even more important. And there are a few companies that have the breadth and depth of the whole IT stack, as I mentioned, cloud services, software and hardware, across the application workload and infrastructure, on-prem and in the cloud, and the full spectrum from an IT life cycle perspective: advise, design, build, integrate, manage and deploy. So when we think about CDW in the future, I think about it pretty simply. For our customers, their hybrid infrastructure and digital experience needs, which is the full spectrum of what they're going to be able to need, they can get it from CDW. And I would hope, in the future, they would -- we would be known to them as the leading adviser and platform for technology digital transformations. Adam Tyler Tindle - Raymond James & Associates, Inc., Research Division - Senior Research Associate Well, I think it's a great place to leave it. Chris and Collin, congrats on all the success. It's a fantastic company. I know we've got a very full meeting schedule to get you go -- to go to, and we'll go ahead and leave it there. Thanks again. 11 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 09, 2020 / 1:50PM, CDW.OQ - CDW Corp at Raymond James Technology Investors Conference (Virtual) Christine A. Leahy - CDW Corporation - President, CEO & Director Great. Collin B. Kebo - CDW Corporation - Senior VP & CFO Thank you. Christine A. Leahy - CDW Corporation - President, CEO & Director Thanks, Adam. DISCLAIMER Refinitiv reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes. In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized. THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES REFINITIV OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS. 2020, Refinitiv. All Rights Reserved. 13537430-2020-12-10T16:56:52.250 12 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 09, 2020 / 1:50PM, CDW.OQ - CDW Corp at Raymond James Technology Investors Conference (Virtual)
REFINITIV STREETEVENTS EDITED TRANSCRIPT FMC.N - FMC Corp at UBS Chicago Virtual Agricultural & Industrial Chemicals Conference EVENT DATE/TIME: DECEMBER 10, 2020 / 3:30PM GMT REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS Andrew D. Sandifer FMC Corporation - Executive VP & CFO CONFERENCE CALL PARTICIPANTS John Ezekiel E. Roberts UBS Investment Bank, Research Division - Executive Director and Equity Research Analyst, Chemicals PRESENTATION John Ezekiel E. Roberts - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division - Executive Director and Equity Research Analyst, Chemicals Operator, are we live? Operator We are live. John Ezekiel E. Roberts - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division - Executive Director and Equity Research Analyst, Chemicals Thank you, everyone, for joining us. This is John Roberts from UBS. Welcome to the UBS-hosted fireside chat with Andrew Sandifer, Chief Financial Officer of FMC Corp.; and Michael Wherley, Head of Investor Relations for FMC Corp. Also with me on the call is the UBS team of Josh Spector, Matt Skowronski, Lucas Beaumont and James Cannon. I'll make some opening remarks, and then Andrew and I are going to have a prepared Q&A about FMC Corp. (Operator Instructions) Let me just start with our buy rating on FMC Corp. The crop protection chemical market is still somewhat fragmented because there are so many different crops, so many different pests and regulatory requirements are highly regional. FMC is among the 5 largest firms globally, and we think the big are going to get bigger because the R&D and regulatory barriers are just too high for most of the small competitors. I like to make the analogy of crop protection chemicals to antibiotics for plants. In both cases, we're dealing with infections of living organisms. Safety is a very high priority because you don't want to hurt the patient, and it seems like there are new infections to deal with every year. And so the market is continuously renewing itself and has organic growth that should last a long time. Trust is also a huge factor because there are so many different variables that a farmer is dealing with, and it's hard for a farmer to tell exactly why yields are higher or lower than expected. So market shares are very sticky, and we think this is among the best specialty chemical businesses and that FMC executes well within this great industry. With that, let me just welcome Andrew and Michael. Andrew D. Sandifer - FMC Corporation - Executive VP & CFO Thanks. Good morning, John. QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS John Ezekiel E. Roberts - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division - Executive Director and Equity Research Analyst, Chemicals Good. I can hear you clear. Great. Andrew, I first met you way back at Rohm and Haas. For those that don't know you, just quickly tell us a little bit about your background and what you think are the most important skills that you bring to this role. You've got a little bit different CFO background, I think, with a master's in engineering. 2 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 10, 2020 / 3:30PM, FMC.N - FMC Corp at UBS Chicago Virtual Agricultural & Industrial Chemicals Conference Andrew D. Sandifer - FMC Corporation - Executive VP & CFO Yes. Thanks, John. Yes. Scary, it has been a little while since you and I just met, maybe 1.5 decade. And I certainly did take a different route into the CFO seat than many other CFOs, probably (inaudible) engineer, started off life as an industrial engineer with a bachelor's and master's. Went into manufacturing and then packaging plants and worked for about 4 years there. Pretty quickly realized that I was interested in a lot more than just the operations side, so after about 4 years, I got married, quit my job and went back to business school, got an MBA, got involved in much more broader picture issues in the business. It's been about 5 years with the Boston Consulting Group after business school, mainly working on corporate transformation, turnarounds, restructurings, merger integrations. And then came into the chemical industry at Rohm and Haas. Spent a couple of years doing strategic planning, couple of roles in sales and marketing and some business development activity. And then I, one day, got pulled in investor relations, where you and I met during my first tour in investor relations in Rohm and Haas. After being -- doing investor relations for about a year or so, at that point, Dow made the move and made an offer and ended up acquiring Rohm and Haas. I spent a year working on leading the sign to close integration process of the (inaudible) side, working for a gentleman named Pierre Brondeau, who many of you may know, and I worked directly for Pierre in that role. After the deal closed, I ran a business unit in the electronic materials group for a while. And in 2010, it just -- it became clear it was time for a change. Pierre had moved on and taken over the CEO of FMC at the beginning of 2010, Mark Douglas had joined in April that year. I ended up joining in September, initially taking lead up to [chief] planning and M&A. 2014 led our aborted spin -- initial attempt at spinning off some of our minerals-related businesses, including our lithium business, which we canceled and we ended up buying Cheminova. Led the integration of Cheminova and then became Treasurer, where I stayed for a couple of years, including executing and integrating and doing a big part of the integration and execution of the transaction with DuPont, and then took over as CFO in 2018 right ahead of spinning off the lithium business. So I'd like to think I've a pretty broad set of experiences to the CSSP from plant-level operations to nuts and bolts finance to business management, sales and marketing, that really do allow me to work closely with Mark, much as I did with Mark and Pierre throughout the past decade in really helping shape the future of FMC, to bring more than just the numbers to that business partner relationship with the CFO. John Ezekiel E. Roberts - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division - Executive Director and Equity Research Analyst, Chemicals Great. That was a great introduction. Andrew, FMC recently held an R&D day. The company spends 6.5% of sales in R&D. That's a multiple of the average that we see for typical chemical companies. As a finance guy, how do you think about the right level of R&D spend? And how do you measure the productivity or the return on that spend? Is there a vitality index or other metrics that the company measures itself against? Andrew D. Sandifer - FMC Corporation - Executive VP & CFO Yes. It's a great question and one we wrestle with a lot, just because you're right, the magnitude of the spend has been roughly about the order of $300 million in R&D this year, more -- slightly more than that on $4.75 billion revenue base. There's not a single algorithm or single metric that we look to when we think about what's the right level of spend? And are we getting the right return from that spend? We're looking across a lot of different factors. As you mentioned in your opening comments, one of the key drivers in our industry for organic growth is introducing newer products that are better performing, have less off-target impact or less harsh (inaudible) fuller terms. So we've really been driving hard to take it to a rhythm and output pace with our R&D pipeline, where we get a new active ingredient introduced every year. So one of our key metrics from an output perspective, from early-stage discovery, we want to move into our more later stage and heavier lithium development pipeline, one new molecule a year. And that will allow us and build over time, where we're really introducing one new active ingredient 3 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 10, 2020 / 3:30PM, FMC.N - FMC Corp at UBS Chicago Virtual Agricultural & Industrial Chemicals Conference out of that development pipeline each year. And that's an important part of regenerating our portfolio and continuing to sustain that high organic growth that we've had as a company. Yes, the other piece that we think a lot about when we're looking at that, both the amount of spend and the specific things that we're spending on is maintaining the balance. One of FMC's greatest strengths and one of the reasons we think that we have been a more predictable performer in our space is the balance that we have geographically and across crops. Our regional balance is such that we're pretty much evenly weighted across the 4 geographies of the world. We're not excessively weighted to any single crop or single crop geography combination. We are much more broad, participating -- a lot more participation in specialty crops. Soybean is a key crop for us, but U.S. corn (inaudible) is not. So we like that balance. We want to maintain that balance. We're investing in R&D programs. We're very careful to make sure that we're not tilting our mix one way or the other to become excessively concentrated. The last factor is, where it gets a bit more financial, and importantly, again, there's not a perfect algorithm. But it's really balancing how we think about our forward spend with the number of attractive projects that we have, right? So we have a cost structure where we think we can sustain spending at 6% to 7% of sales on R&D and still have the highest EBITDA margins in our industry, just by the basis of the profitability and the strength of our product portfolio and from the renewal that comes from the new products you produce. That gives us enough funding to be able to fund a lot of projects and probably more than we can fund. And that's when we start thinking about the attractiveness of products. We do look at a number of different metrics. We want to make sure that there's -- that the product has a potential to be a meaningful contributor to revenue. Not everything is going to be as big as Rynaxypyr by any means, but it needs to be a product that has a material contribution to revenue for the company or the potential for that. We do project level financial models and TV models for looking at the full cost of R&D investment marketing, all with external costs that studies -- the regulatory studies that are on bringing the product to market and looking at that versus the ramp for the products that we're expecting to see. And our hurdle rate for IRR is well above our cost to capital, both to recognize some of the riskiness of what we're trying to -- what we're looking at, and also because we want to make sure that we are really allocating resources to the highest value projects. When we look at the overall portfolio, we are also expecting -- looking for an overall IRR of the portfolio that's well in excess of our current cost of capital. In fact, above our current return on capital because we do believe, given the nature of how new product introduction tends to be a higher economic value for -- in our industry, that we ought to be able to drive improving returns or have expectations of improving turns from introduction of new products. So again, it's -- there's not a single metric. There's not a single algorithm [growth]. It really is balancing all of those competing tensions. And it can be a little bit frustrating because I'm not only a numbers guy, I am a numbers guy and trying to think -- balance some of the qualitative and quantitative, it's an ongoing dialogue. But again, I think that 6.5%-ish -- 6% to 7% range feels like the sweet spot for us. John Ezekiel E. Roberts - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division - Executive Director and Equity Research Analyst, Chemicals Right. That R&D meeting focused on new products, but you've got a number of older products. Is there anything in the portfolio that we need to be worried about, for example, pyrethroid insecticides? Europe, in particular, has been looking to phase out older chemistries, although I think they've had some mixed progress on that. So maybe take us through where we might have some downside risk in the portfolio. Andrew D. Sandifer - FMC Corporation - Executive VP & CFO The headline here is that there's not a specific single focused risk to focus at this point. There are absolutely ongoing regulatory pressures around the world, but most strongly in Europe. And as you pointed to, there have been a number of efforts in Europe to push some of the older products off the market. A little -- both a threat and opportunity, opens up room for newer, higher-performing products. So for a company that's bringing 4 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 10, 2020 / 3:30PM, FMC.N - FMC Corp at UBS Chicago Virtual Agricultural & Industrial Chemicals Conference a bunch of new products to market, that can be a good thing. But it does force some churn in the portfolio. There's nothing on the immediate horizon that's material to our core product lines, even with our core [pyrethroid] resources. Now there is a lot of pressure and a lot of nibbling in things. It does take a lot of ongoing effort to continue to protect and extend the life cycle of those products. But as you've also noted, it's not as simple as the headlines read because, while a different class of insecticides, neonicotinoid, were extensively banned in the EU several years ago, it's still a substantial business in those molecules through emergency use authorizations because there's no other alternative in crops like sugar beet, where certain aphids are just decimating the crops in Europe. If there is a tension among the member states in the overall European commission around how those changes happen, I think we can't do anything other than acknowledge there are going to be tightening pressures in Europe. So that work to continue to help the regulators better understand our products and continue to defend and protect them to extend their life cycle, it's going to continue to be a big focus for us. But it does fit, I think, John, and the general framing we've given [both] is we think that about -- on steady state, about 1% to 1.5% of our sales each year that are going to be subject to either product discontinuation, whether that's the (inaudible) product we choose to exit, or where that choice is made for us via regulator whether that's in Europe or another part of the world. So we've built that in. And the way we think about our growth dynamics is that sort of regular churn. And we're seeing a little bit higher at the level of that churn this year, more about a 3% headwind, in part because we had one lumpy product exit, where we chose, strategically, to exit carbofuran, which is a very long -- very old FMC product. 20 years ago, big heart of this business. But now where we have better, less harsh alternatives to provide, we chose to exit that market. So there's a little lumpiness this year with a bit more of a headwind. But I think people should think that dynamics in our business, the strong organic growth, for a lot of reasons, that there's a neverending drive for yield to feed 100 (inaudible) being a key piece and then the regeneration of the portfolio of new products. On the other side, there is a bit of ongoing churn out of the product line, as better products displace older, harsher chemistries and as the regulators continue to push that process as well. John Ezekiel E. Roberts - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division - Executive Director and Equity Research Analyst, Chemicals I mentioned earlier that the industry had a fair amount of fragmentation. FMC has -- although obviously a little bit less fragmented now, FMC has made two large acquisitions, Cheminova and then most of the DuPont Crop Protection chemical operations. We also had the combinations of Dow and the rest of DuPont ag. We had ChemChina and Syngenta, Bayer and Monsanto, and BASF and ICL -- UPL, sorry, BASF and UPL also made significant acquisitions. Is there room for much more industry consolidation in pesticides? And do you think there are other meaningful acquisitions in the future for FMC? And if so, when do you think FMC could be in a financial position to look at other meaningful acquisitions? Andrew D. Sandifer - FMC Corporation - Executive VP & CFO Look, I think you're right, we have seen a great deal of consolidation, particularly among that top tier of innovation-driven crop protection chemistry companies: FMC; Bayer; BASF; ChemChina now, formally Syngenta; Corteva. Part of the reason we have the portfolio we have is that the European Union said for -- we believe, the European Union believes there need to be 5 innovation players in the crop protection industry to have a competitive industry. So in the immediate term, I do not -- I think it's unlikely that there's further consolidation among that group of 5 innovation-led companies. We are -- that group now has -- depending on how you wanted to measure it, somewhere around 70% share of the global crop protection market, but it's still not an overly consolidated market, but certainly more consolidated than it was 5 years ago before this current wave of [evaluation]. Where I think there might be more near-term consolidation is in the generic space. Certainly where (inaudible) combination, for example, where the pressures are such that, I think, the innovation-led players are going to continue to take share systemically over time, since it's going to force some of the smaller players out. And as the cost to reregister key products on the market gets higher and higher, we're going to need greater scale in that generic portion of the market. So it would not surprise me at all to see some further consolidation in the generic tier. 5 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 10, 2020 / 3:30PM, FMC.N - FMC Corp at UBS Chicago Virtual Agricultural & Industrial Chemicals Conference To be clear, FMC has 0 interest in participating in the consolidation among generic players, not our market. We're a technology-driven play, not interested. So right now, in terms of M&A appetite, our real focus is on technology, where can we add additional product lines and particularly some earlier stage technologies and looking at things like digital ag or some synthetic biology, some of these earlier emerging technologies where we can make some earlier stage investments and help shape how some things evolve. So I think you should expect that our M&A appetite is more technology-driven or product line driven deals. These are things that are in the 10s and 50s of millions of dollars, not hundreds of millions of dollars. And where the cash is not the only currency, where product swaps are not uncommon in our business, where we provide access to a partner company to one of our products in exchange for them allowing us access to one of theirs. In particular, we have a strong interest in expanding our fungicide portfolio. That's a big area of investment for R&D for us. But also, we did make a small acquisition recently where we bought out the remaining rights from our joint development partner in the fungicide Fluindapyr that we're introducing starting next year. But it's -- M&A appetite in the near term, mid-term is likely to be relatively muted, mainly because the view in the -- any competition stories. That said, we have a solid balance sheet, and we do have a pretty committed financial set of policies to maintain leverage at a certain level that, certainly, we don't have a lot of dry powder to go do a large deal just sitting around. But if there were a compelling investment, something -- I mean, maybe another DuPont transaction to do, we have the ability, and we have demonstrated the ability with both Cheminova and with DuPont to buy assets, integrate them, drive value from it and delever. So if we had, temporarily -- if there really was a compelling opportunity and it required us to temporarily take our debt up, we have a track record where we've shown we can do that, manage the balance sheet, manage the acquisition to drive value. I don't see something right now, but I've been around long enough to know never say never. But in terms of our deployment priorities right now, what we're looking for, product lines, early stage technology investments, 10s and 50s. So not a significant use of free cash flow going forward. John Ezekiel E. Roberts - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division - Executive Director and Equity Research Analyst, Chemicals Thanks. This is among the most foreign exchange impacted industries within chemicals. How do you plan for that uncertainty? And how do you deal with the large swings that happen on a somewhat regular basis in foreign exchange? And is there anything that gives you confidence that you can continue to manage through these ups and downs in foreign exchange? Andrew D. Sandifer - FMC Corporation - Executive VP & CFO Look, foreign exchange has been, particularly, dealing with fluctuations on a couple of key currencies, BRL being one of them, but certainly the RMB and the euro as well. It's just a fact of life in our industry. And the way you plan for uncertainty is by planning for being able to change, right? To be able to respond to that uncertainty. We can't control the uncertainty. We can -- what we can do is become better prepared to respond to it. So one of our key responses, obviously, is hedging. We have a pretty systematic approach to hedging. It's a rolling program. It allows us to help mitigate some of the impact of FX. But to be clear, there is no hedging program that's going to stop there from being year-on-year currency impacts. There's no economic way to do that. What we're trying to do is, through a systematic approach on a rolling basis, be able to understand enough and take enough of the volatility of the currency out to where we can have more confidence in delivering the guidance that we give, right? It's not to stop there from being a year-on-year impact. But among the tools that we have to be able to respond and still deliver the financial performance that we -- those expectations that we set when we give guidance. So in a year like this year, we started the year thinking that we're going to have about a $45 million headwind in EBITDA from FX. Our latest guidance, that number has crept up by -- to almost $245 million in headwind. A little more than $245 million in headwinds. What are our levers? Well, we've been hedging. There's some benefit from that. Particularly in Brazil, our biggest lever is adjusting the price list. And while you can't recover typically 6 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 10, 2020 / 3:30PM, FMC.N - FMC Corp at UBS Chicago Virtual Agricultural & Industrial Chemicals Conference all of that in 1 year, we do a lot of work and have a commercial team that's very focused on recovering as much as possible of price and that part of our business is conducted in local currency as we see those swings in the currency. And then we use our other levers to make sure we can get to that expectation set through the cost control or additional volumes to make sure we can get there. I mean, again, if you look at how our guidance has evolved through the year, we're initially expecting only about an $80 million benefit from pricing this year. Now it's up to -- now it's $180 million, so not covering the full FX impact, but a big chunk of it. And as we're pulling other levers, we're able to continue to meet the expectations we set. So again, I'd say FX is just the reality of life in our business. Our plan -- our way of dealing with the uncertainty is recognizing that we have to be able to respond to uncertainty. So we pull the levers, particularly moving price quickly with FX changes, doing some risk management through hedging and just managing it very, very closely, and it's all driven by trying to increase the likelihood of delivering on the guidance and the expectations that we've set. John Ezekiel E. Roberts - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division - Executive Director and Equity Research Analyst, Chemicals Great. Thanks. One of the other areas of uncertainty is the channel inventory issues. Crop protection chemicals are primarily sold via distribution, which, obviously, results in a long supply chain and significant inventories downstream of FMC. If you couple that with seasonality and the unpredictability of weather and pest infestations, you can get some really big swings in supply chain inventory. How does FMC deal with that uncertainty? Andrew D. Sandifer - FMC Corporation - Executive VP & CFO Yes. And again, it comes down to this agility, this ability to respond to uncertainty, whether pest pressure, supply interruption over the past several years, particularly in 2018, where some significant disruptions in supply from China. They're all just factors that are intrinsic to doing business in our industry. We manage it by being very agile. But as our operations folks will talk about using very short interval control, looking at things on a very rapid and frequent basis. But it fundamentally starts with being close to the customer, understanding at the grower level and then back through the chain where the inventory is, what people are using, what's getting consumed and just managing the supply chain all the way through that, all the way back to raw material suppliers. So it varies a lot from country to country how we actually do that. But we do -- and all of our major markets have very good visibility in the chain forward from us. For Brazil, for example, our salespeople are regularly visiting our customer warehouses. And we perhaps (inaudible) they give an update. We collect updates on what the inventory positions are of our products in these various customer warehouses. So it's something we manage very systematically and watch very, very closely. So just -- since we're on the topic, just a quick run around the world. I think when we look to Brazil, certainly, there was a bit of a delayed start to the season. We talked about this in the earnings call. Inventories were a bit high at that point. We are seeing them come down and returning to more normal as the season progresses and with planning. So it's -- that -- we'll see how it turns out, but so far, so good. North America inventory levels have been pretty solid. The higher levels of inventory, particularly for (inaudible) herbicides we saw earlier in the year have normalized. Feeling pretty good. Europe -- Northern Europe, in particular, had a very dry summer and fall. So there's a bit of channel inventory stacked up there. Not the kind of headwind that we've seen in the other parts of the world for our business, but it's there. And overall, Asia is in pretty good shape. There's a bit of excess inventory in China. They had some summer floods that impacted things, but India and Indonesia, both have had very, very good weather, very good growing conditions. Australia is rebounding after a couple of years of drought. So again, it is -- this is just an intrinsic part of our business and how you do it is -- it's that direct line of sight from the grower lever all the way back that lets us respond and having a supply chain that lets us to be agile to where we can redirect material inventory and production not needed to 7 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 10, 2020 / 3:30PM, FMC.N - FMC Corp at UBS Chicago Virtual Agricultural & Industrial Chemicals Conference deal with, whether it's demand driven or supply driven, changes as we go through the year. Because the one thing we do know is no matter how good our plan is, we're going to have to adjust it because the world is going to change on us. John Ezekiel E. Roberts - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division - Executive Director and Equity Research Analyst, Chemicals Andrew, FMC's diamide products begin to lose patent protection in a few years. We know there are different patent dates in different countries and process patents as well. It's pretty complicated. Is there an easy way to summarize the timing of the expiration of the patents and any signs yet of competition on the horizon? And what's the strategy to continue to grow this product category? Andrew D. Sandifer - FMC Corporation - Executive VP & CFO Sure. Look, it's an area of a lot of interest. Diamides are certainly a key part of our portfolio. We are very confident that there's a lot of runway for the diamides left. There's a lot of room to continue growing these products above the market for at least the rest of the decade. They're very effective, low dose, limited -- very limited off-target impacts. And then importantly, its fast-acting products are systemic, meaning it goes into the plant and really provides long-lasting control. We've got over 1,000 patents across Cyazypyr and Rynaxypyr, Rynaxypyr being the larger of the 2. But they cover both the composition and matter, which I think gets a bit of excess focus from people around those patents, as well as very complex manufacturing processes and as well as formulation and applications for use of Rynaxypyr. So when we think about composition of matter, so the actual molecule patent itself, Rynaxypyr, the patent start expiring in 2022 through '24. Cyazypyr starts in '24. It runs another 18 months, 24 months like that. But the process patents themselves don't start expire by 2025 and many into well into 2026 and 2027. So why do process patents matter so much? Either -- the diamides, Cyazypyr and Rynaxypyr, are very complicated molecules to make, 15- and 16-step processes, respectively. When you register a crop chemical, this is where the analogy with pharmaceutical active ingredients breaks down. When you register a crop chemical, one of the data points that regulators look at is the mix of impurities that are -- come along with the active ingredient. In any chemical synthesis process, you get some incomplete reaction, and you have some byproducts that contaminates. Impurities is the term that gets used in a regulatory content. They come along with it from a -- and that balance of impurity, that profile is intrinsic to the manufacturing process that's used. And many -- in particularly most of the important countries, if you want to register a product using the data of an existing registrant, you need to have an impurity profile that is, if not exactly the same, very similar to what has been registered. Any manufacturing process other than the one that we have patented and commercially used is going to have a very different impurity profile, and therefore, you're not going to be able to rely on FMC's data to get a registration. You're going to have to go spend a couple of years and some significant money to do your own toxicology studies and characterize the impurity profile. How do we know this? We patented multiple alternate routes to produce the Rynaxypyr and Cyazypyr, and we know definitively that their impurity profiles are substantially different from the one that's in commercial use today. So anyone who's trying to enter the market in a legal fashion who wants to be able to have a reasonable time frame to get to market is going to have to either develop their own toxicology data and do all the work to do that while developing a different process that doesn't infringe on our existing process patents. Or you come get a license from FMC. And that's where our partnership strategy comes into place. We've been actively -- proactively out there developing partnership opportunities with 4 global players and over 40 regional players up to date, where, in exchange for an exclusive supply agreement that goes longer than -- well beyond the expiration of the process patents, we get people access and -- to the diamides as long as they're sourced from us. So that allows us to continue to build scale in our manufacturing, and to more rapidly, obviously, penetrate markets that -- look. None of us in the big 5 have commercial infrastructure that touches every customer. So the ability to grow these molecules and get further penetration by getting them into the hands of more people, we can get broader penetration and continue to accelerate the growth of these products. 8 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 10, 2020 / 3:30PM, FMC.N - FMC Corp at UBS Chicago Virtual Agricultural & Industrial Chemicals Conference So we -- people can, depending on the structure of the deal, we can license the trademarks. Rynaxypyr and Cyazypyr are trademark names for chlorantraniliprole and cyantraniliprole. If you want to sell Rynaxypyr, you need a license from us. If you want to produce it today and register using our data, you need to use our manufacturing process. So this partnership strategy lets partner companies enter the market before patent expiration, without having to put in significant capital expenditure to build their own 15- or 16-step manufactured processes, which, oh, by the way, each of those intermediate steps produces products that really have no other commercial use other than making Rynaxypyr or Cyazypyr, the dedicated investments you have to make. And you don't have to do the extra work if you're trying to circumvent our manufacturing patents, by -- to do the regulatory work because of your impurity profile. So I think it's a pretty compelling argument and opportunity for both FMC and for the partner company. They get to avoid a lot of cost and a lot of capital. We get to more rapidly scale and grow the diamides business. We avoid the SG&A costs and all the other formulating and distribution costs that come along with when we sell just the active ingredients to a partner and they go ahead and do that. So we can still make a very nice margin just on the sale of the active ingredient. And there's still plenty of margin for the partner company through their own formulation work to get in there. So at the end of the day, that time line question, John, I mean, certainly, '22 to '25 is when the compound -- composition of matter comes off. From a process patent perspective, the earliest people can legally produce using our process is at the beginning of '26 in China and India, the end of '26 in Brazil, in the middle of '27 in Europe and the U.S. So it's quite a long way away before someone can legally produce a product there. Now there are illegal producers today. Much of it's fake. It's not real. There are some people who make very close analog goods. There's a little bit of production in China and India. We actively enforce -- we won a couple of [enforced] actions in India already with people making counterfeit products. That's just a fact of life. We still have a huge and very fast-growing business despite those competitors. So we are very confident that the combination of the patent estate that we have and the commercial strategy, this partnership strategy, it's going to allow us to continue driving significant value and strong growth in diamides through at least the end of this decade. John Ezekiel E. Roberts - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division - Executive Director and Equity Research Analyst, Chemicals Great. I've got one more question after this in the formal part here. But before I ask my last 2 questions, I'll just remind people. (Operator Instructions). And we have some questions that come in that I'll ask after these two. But I didn't want to end the formal part on how the quarter is progressing, but how's the quarter progressing? You provided some inventory comments earlier, but anything else on pricing or other trends about the quarter so far, since we're in December already? Andrew D. Sandifer - FMC Corporation - Executive VP & CFO Yes. Always an interesting spot in the year. Look, I would say there's been a lot of good news in ag markets lately. The outlook, particularly for U.S. root crop farmers has improved. I think it's important context just in terms of overall health of the industry, but a reminder that FMC in particular, U.S. [growth] crops are not a huge grower, a huge portion of our business is probably 10% to 12% of our global business. So while it's beneficial to us, it's not necessarily a disproportionate driver for the quarter. When we guided in November, we guided to a very strong quarter with 10% organic revenue growth. On -- and to be clear, that's on top of a very strong prior year period where we had 11% organic revenue growth. So we have a tough comp, but even then, we're looking at very strong growth. We also guided 8% EBITDA growth for the quarter. As we stated when we get in the earnings call in November, there are some costs that were deferred from Q3 into Q4. And we are seeing a little more -- I won't say, return to normal, but some return of SG&A as we're finding different ways to operate in the constraints around coronavirus. So that's -- not updating guidance today, but certainly, that's our most recent guidance. We looked around the world, certainly, Latin America and Brazil, particularly, are our biggest contributor in the quarter. Latin America is typically about 40% of our revenue in the fourth quarter. Organic growth in Latin America is expected to be pretty strong, but because of FX, it's going to be -- reported growth will be dampened a bit, but conditions are pretty solid. Asia is doing very well. It was a good monsoon in India. A few places within India was probably too good. It's funny about the ag business. There's no such thing is good weather. There's always some element of it. 9 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 10, 2020 / 3:30PM, FMC.N - FMC Corp at UBS Chicago Virtual Agricultural & Industrial Chemicals Conference There's a tweak, but they're pretty solid. North America, we had a very strong Q4 in the prior year period. Things are pretty healthy in the North American market environment. So I would just say simply, and for us, for fourth quarter, December is always a big month. We're right knee-deep in the middle of it. There's a lot of activity going on, but we're making good progress. John Ezekiel E. Roberts - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division - Executive Director and Equity Research Analyst, Chemicals Before we move to audience questions, my last prepared question is regarding the heavy emphasis on sustainability at your recent R&D event. The financial benefits of this are hard to quantify, which must be a little frustrating for a CFO. Besides the obvious benefits of revenues from new natural biological products, how does the CFO think about sustainability in the crop protection chemical market? Andrew D. Sandifer - FMC Corporation - Executive VP & CFO Yes. Look, sustainability is something that's very deeply ingrained at FMC. It's not new. It's getting a lot more focus and a lot more transparency, but it's not new. We come from a long history of responsible operation. We know that our right to operate in the communities where we operate manufacturing is driven by being a responsible operator. And if we look at one of the many elements of broad ESG or sustainability issues around safety, we have a total incident rate this year less than 0.1, which puts us in the very upper echelon of industry globally. It doesn't happen by accident, excuse the pun, but it's a sign of the kind of cultural commitment we have that FMC is doing things the right way, setting very high expectations, critically evaluating all failures with an eye on what we can improve. So with safety as a starting point for thinking about sustainability as a CFO, I do take a lot of comfort that there -- there's pretty good history that companies that have strong safety performance have -- tend to outperform because they tend to do a lot of things the right way. If you're doing safety the right way, you tend to do a lot of things operationally the right way. So with ESG issues, broadly sustainability, we see it in a similar way. It's -- many of these things are simply the right ways to do business. But they also -- again, they provide opportunities to grow the business, as you mentioned, with plant health and biological products as a growth opportunity for us. It helps us reinforce some of the strengths we have in terms of higher-performing and less harsh products from a product portfolio perspective, for example. It's a big driver of commitment engagement with our workforce. So from a valuation and a number guy's perspective, it's hard to get operating metrics. We're working towards seeing where you can get more short-term sort of cycle metrics to help it. But I do think, fundamentally, it's about protecting, from a valuation sense, the terminal value of the business. And I think your long-term right to continue to participate and contribute and generate. So we've done a lot of things to really align with and respond to, particularly from a transparency perspective, increasing expectations on our industry and our company around sustainability. We put down quantitative goals on reducing environmental impacts, particularly around energy usage, greenhouse gas, waste -- greenhouse gases, waste, water intensity. We've committed to and are making good progress in shifting 100% of our R&D towards sustainably advantaged products. We'll hit that goal -- the target date is 2025. We will hit it earlier than that. We've set some stretch goals internally to improve racial and gender equity in our workforce. And we're committed to increasing transparency. We do a lot to make more visible our progress on these metrics, but you should expect to see more. I'd say the last thing from a CFO perspective, it's important to me that what we do and the initiatives we undertake are measurable and that they have an impact. And that means being -- it means being tied to compensation. What gets measured gets done and what gets paid on really gets done. So we -- much as we've done in the last couple of years with cash flow, where we added, both in short-term and long-term incentives, metrics and compensation incentives that are tied to cash flow, you should expect that we're going to start adding some elements of sustainability goals as well and to compensation incentives for senior executives. So not a short answer, but something, I think, that's important to people to understand philosophically where we're coming from. 10 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 10, 2020 / 3:30PM, FMC.N - FMC Corp at UBS Chicago Virtual Agricultural & Industrial Chemicals Conference John Ezekiel E. Roberts - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division - Executive Director and Equity Research Analyst, Chemicals Great. Thanks. Got our first question from the audience here. UBS hosted a call with consultants at IHS Markit last week, and there was some debate, I guess, on what qualifies as a new mode of action for some of your new products. I guess some new modes of action are newer than others, but was that just more of an academic definitional debate, not commercially relevant? Or does it really make a difference? Andrew D. Sandifer - FMC Corporation - Executive VP & CFO So I'd point to a couple of things there. In one particular product, which is bixlozone, also trade name for the active ingredient Isoflex, which is a herbicide we're introducing for cereals in Australia as the first application next year. That -- there is a definitional difference in what -- the way IHS is looking at it and the way we look at it. As we clearly talked about in our Investor Day, that mode of action has never been used in cereals applications. So the fact that there -- that mode of action has been used in other applications, when you think about it, a big part of the selling point for bixlozone, for Isoflex is its ability to help control weeds that are resistant to other herbicides. There's not been any product registered globally in cereal that has that mode of action. So I think that's a bit of a definitional difference. The other difference is -- look, IHS is a great organization to do a lot of good market work, but they will tell you that many of their observations are their informed opinion. They simply got a few things wrong, where products that we described in our pipeline they presumed were different products from information they had from several years ago, where we made very clear and listed in this slide the specific chemical process by which those mode of actions work. The -- unfortunately, IHS is confused with how several of them work. They were looking and expecting that some of those molecules are actually older products, and in fact, we've canceled the projects because they weren't as effective, and we moved on to different molecules. So I think there's just a misunderstanding piece there on IHS' part around some of the mode of action comments that they made. So fundamentally, we're confident and are clear where we are introducing new modes of action. In the case of bixlozone, in a case where it's new to the crop and then the other products that we've talked about and particularly those insecticide, which is fundamentally a new mode of action. I think IHS just didn't understand what we have said in the Investor Day. And their presumptions around which chemicals we're -- which molecules we're actually talking about was incorrect. John Ezekiel E. Roberts - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division - Executive Director and Equity Research Analyst, Chemicals Andrew, do you have time for maybe 1 or 2 more? Andrew D. Sandifer - FMC Corporation - Executive VP & CFO Sure. John Ezekiel E. Roberts - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division - Executive Director and Equity Research Analyst, Chemicals I got a question here. I know you addressed the generic competition, the diamides that's there, but it's a specific question about what was it about glyphosate that made that so amenable to generic competition that's there and the main differences between that and the diamides? 11 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 10, 2020 / 3:30PM, FMC.N - FMC Corp at UBS Chicago Virtual Agricultural & Industrial Chemicals Conference Andrew D. Sandifer - FMC Corporation - Executive VP & CFO The biggest difference. Glyphosate is a 1-step process where you take phosphorus and create a [salt] from it. You can do in a bucket with a broomstick. You need 15 to 16 steps of complex chemical synthesis to make Rynaxypyr and Cyazypyr. It is serious chemistry. So while there are plenty of capable producers who could take our patent process and go implement it, developing their own is not a simple one. And it is nowhere near as simple as glyphosate where it literally is guy in the back room with a bucket can produce it. So I think that analogy gets used way too much. Glyphosate was a -- is a one of a kind in ag chem history, both in its broad applicability and the simplicity of the chemical process. So that's the biggest difference there. Now, certainly, look, there are people out there trying to get into these markets so that I mentioned there is a legal competition already out there in a couple of markets. We've been aggressively enforcing in India, trying to do the same in China. A lot of the product that's out there -- counterfeit product that's out there is actually fake. There are a few people who have tried and have been able to make some real Rynaxypyr. For anybody who wants to participate broadly have a meaningful impact in the marketplace, they're going to have to get real registrations. Regulatory authorities in all these countries are fairly sophisticated and understand the dynamics and have a strong interest in making sure that the production and the product that's getting used actually is what it's supposed to be from a consumer and worker safety perspective. So the security profile issue comes up again and again. So I'd just say that, yes, look, we're not naive enough to think there's not going to be any competition. We just don't think that it's going to impact our ability to continue to drive strong organic growth and very strong value creation from these molecules for a long time. John Ezekiel E. Roberts - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division - Executive Director and Equity Research Analyst, Chemicals Great. And maybe we'll take one last one here. FMC has among the lower tax rates for U.S. chemical companies. With the Biden administration coming in, do you have any thoughts on the GILTI tax scenarios and what a higher U.S. rate could mean for FMC's overall tax rate? Andrew D. Sandifer - FMC Corporation - Executive VP & CFO Sure. Look, you're right. We have -- we're guiding to a 13.5% tax rate -- effective tax rate this year. So we have a very, very low tax rate relative to our peer companies, certainly. It's driven by our legal entity structure, and particularly the way we executed the DuPont transaction that has a large portion of our earnings going through countries where we have tax rulings, formal agreements with the tax authorities based on investments and commitments we've made there, and we get an attractive tax rate. These things are in place for the long term. We do a lot of work to maintain them and extend them and feel very comfortable that they will continue to be there for the long range. I am not a political (inaudible). I will say simply, it is unlikely, in my mind, that much of the Biden agenda, particularly the tax proposals of the platform, are like -- it is unlikely, in my viewing that they're going to be implemented as proposed. In the best case, where we have a divided Senate, it's still going to be very hard for aggressive movements on a lot of policy issues. And in a more likely case, where the Senate is still a majority Republican, I think it's pretty much dead in the water. That said, we have done some scenario analysis. And I think our conclusion is this. We will continue to have an advantaged structurally tax rate relative to our peers and overall market because of the way our structure is. Changes in GILTI rates and changes in the headline U.S. structure -- U.S tax rates, could impact us and raise our tax rate if they were ever actually to come to fruition. In the likelihood, given the current situation, regardless of the outcome to the Georgia Senate race, it's unlikely that, that's going to be a high priority or quite honestly, practical for a change to happen. But even if it did, while our headline -- our overall rate might increase under those proposals, it would still be substantially lower than our peer companies because that rise in that headline U.S. tax rate is a lot higher than the GILTI tax rates increase. And when you think about our exposure being much more heavily ex-U. S. than in U.S., I think our peer companies are likely to see a much more substantial increase in their tax rate. 12 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 10, 2020 / 3:30PM, FMC.N - FMC Corp at UBS Chicago Virtual Agricultural & Industrial Chemicals Conference But bottom line, I'm not discounting it as a risk, but I still -- I just see it as unlikely that there's going to be -- that, that's the first priority in pandemic environment to go after and that there's the political will in a highly divided, if not slightly Republican majority senate to go after corporate taxes. John Ezekiel E. Roberts - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division - Executive Director and Equity Research Analyst, Chemicals Great. That's a good place to finish. I want to really thank Andrew for great answers to all the questions today. If anyone has additional questions, again, Michael Wherley and Emily Parenteau have been on the call and can handle questions from the Investor Relations side at FMC, or you can contact me or anyone on my team here at UBS. Thanks, everyone. Have a great holiday season and stay safe. Andrew D. Sandifer - FMC Corporation - Executive VP & CFO Thanks, John. Bye-bye. DISCLAIMER Refinitiv reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes. In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized. THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES REFINITIV OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS. 2020, Refinitiv. All Rights Reserved. 13537433-2020-12-10T23:40:59.573 13 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 10, 2020 / 3:30PM, FMC.N - FMC Corp at UBS Chicago Virtual Agricultural & Industrial Chemicals Conference
REFINITIV STREETEVENTS EDITED TRANSCRIPT IONS.OQ - Ionis Pharmaceuticals Inc at BMO Capital Markets Growth & ESG Conference (Virtual) EVENT DATE/TIME: DECEMBER 08, 2020 / 8:00PM GMT REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS Brett P. Monia Ionis Pharmaceuticals, Inc. - Founder, CEO & Director CONFERENCE CALL PARTICIPANTS Guyn Kim BMO Capital Markets Equity Research - Analyst PRESENTATION Guyn Kim - BMO Capital Markets Equity Research - Analyst Good afternoon, everyone. My name is Do Kim, one of the biotech analysts here at BMO. Our next presentation and fireside chat is with Ionis Pharmaceuticals. And with us today is CEO, Brett Monia. Ionis is clearly one of the leading biotech companies in the RNA targeting antisense therapeutic space. Brett, I want to thank you for joining us today. And perhaps a start is -- for the investors less familiar with therapeutics and biotech, provide us a brief background on the company and the platform of your antisense drug. Brett P. Monia - Ionis Pharmaceuticals, Inc. - Founder, CEO & Director Sure. Happy to, Do. And thanks for the invitation. It's a pleasure to be here. So for those not familiar with Ionis, we are the pioneer of the field of antisense technology, technology that we set out to create years ago. And along the way, what we essentially did was create and validate not only the antisense field, but we actually created the sector you just referred to Do as -- referred to as RNA therapeutics with now, we believe we're leading the way in even though many other companies have now entered obviously. Today, we have 3 marketed products; SPINRAZA, which is a true blockbuster for spinal muscular atrophy; TEGSEDI for hereditary TTR amyloidosis in patients suffering from the polyneuropathy manifestations of that disease; and WAYLIVRA for a ultra-rare disease. In Europe. It's approved for an ultra-rare disease called familial chylomicronemia syndrome or FCS. But that's -- those products are real transformational medicines and breakthroughs. But what's really remarkable is the fact that we -- right behind those, we have 6 Phase III studies right now in progress underway, including a drug using our most advanced chemistry called LICA that's targeting all forms of TTR amyloidosis, not just the polyneuropathy that I referred to earlier. And APOCIII LICA, also in Phase III for all kinds of triglyceride related disorders. And then we also have Phase III Huntington's disease, a large cardiovascular indication due to a risk factor called (inaudible) and an ALS drug called SOD1. So real rich late-stage pipeline, rich mid-stage pipeline, all of which is setting us up for additional Phase III studies next year. And with the pipeline so -- as rich as the one we have in mid to late stage, we're projecting actually 10 or more new drug applications for potential approvals to reach market, starting in 2022 through 2025, to add to the 3 that are already on the market. So the technology is really delivering, and we're expecting a vast increase in the number of new products over the next few years. QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS Guyn Kim - BMO Capital Markets Equity Research - Analyst And to follow-up on that, the currently approved products and some of the near-term pipeline drugs, it sounds like these antisense drugs specialize in rare diseases and just difficult conditions to treat. How would you see RNA targeting drugs, their role currently versus what could happen in the future and the overall therapeutic state? 2 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 08, 2020 / 8:00PM, IONS.OQ - Ionis Pharmaceuticals Inc at BMO Capital Markets Growth & ESG Conference (Virtual) Brett P. Monia - Ionis Pharmaceuticals, Inc. - Founder, CEO & Director The -- yes, we're -- we believe, and I think the progress being made in RNA therapeutics really justifies my conclusion that the RNA therapeutic space will represent a major sector of the pharmaceutical industry's ability to deliver medicines to patients for a very long time, and it's only going to grow. Today, there are several companies now with marketed products in RNA therapeutics. And I believe that we've only just scratched the surface by far. I actually think that this will be a sector of the pharma industry's ability to -- and biotech industry's ability to deliver products to market that will be really second to none as large as small molecules and certainly larger than antibodies once it really hits its peak because of the ability to do a few different things. One is to be able to go after undrugable, what's called -- referred to as undrugable targets. So targets that we know cause human diseases but are not approachable with small molecules or antibodies or other means -- through other means. And second, because of the efficiency. Because these drugs are -- represent a platform, we have the ability to move drugs forward very rapidly because of the similarities from one drug to another. And I think that's reflected by the fact that a company the size of Ionis, which is really just -- with our recent acquisition of Akcea, is about 800 employees. We have a pipeline of 40-plus drugs, including the late-stage drugs I've referred to earlier. So I think we've only just scratched the surface in our RNA therapeutics. And I think that it will be a dominant mechanism approach for drug discovery in the industry for many years to come. Guyn Kim - BMO Capital Markets Equity Research - Analyst Great. And you mentioned your acquisition of Akcea. How does that acquisition fundamentally change your business strategy going forward? For us, it seems like a big move on your part. Brett P. Monia - Ionis Pharmaceuticals, Inc. - Founder, CEO & Director It is a big move, Do. It was a big move, and we acquired -- we completed the acquisition of Akcea, our -- and for those that aren't familiar, Akcea is a -- was a commercial organization that we created, and it was to be and was, for about 4 years, our commercial affiliate. They would take drugs that we developed and they were commercializing -- they were intended to commercialize them. They were commercializing TEGSEDI and WAYLIVRA, and they still are, but now they're owned by Ionis. When I set out as the new CEO of Ionis in the beginning of the year, I set out my vision, which was to build on the -- all the great progress we've made over the years at Ionis, really building on our excellence in research and drug development. And what I -- what my vision was, was to build on that and strengthen those areas, but also to add to them by building on our commercial capabilities. And to build out the Ionis-owned pipeline and then to start commercializing our own products under our roof, in addition to the great strategic partnerships we have with so many pharma companies. And the step to acquire Akcea was just a step to accelerate that whole process. Akcea has tremendous commercial capabilities, expertise, a lot of smart people, a lot of experienced people on the commercial side. And so it was a key step to move this process forward more rapidly. In addition, the drugs that we put into Akcea to commercialize eventually -- as well as the ones that are in there now that are on the market that they are commercializing we believe in, and we wanted full control and full access to all the upside of that pipeline. And that's another reason to acquire Akcea is to really bring more value to Ionis and it's shareholders based on acquiring the pipeline, not just the commercial capability. So it was a key step for Ionis, and it's a step that's going forward very well right now. 3 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 08, 2020 / 8:00PM, IONS.OQ - Ionis Pharmaceuticals Inc at BMO Capital Markets Growth & ESG Conference (Virtual) Guyn Kim - BMO Capital Markets Equity Research - Analyst Fantastic. And that's actually a good segue to the Investor Day that you held yesterday, and you had a particular focus on your wholly-owned programs. Maybe you could provide some of the highlights from that Investor Day and run through your accomplishments that you've had for the year and what the goals are for next year? Brett P. Monia - Ionis Pharmaceuticals, Inc. - Founder, CEO & Director Yes. Happy to. So we had our Investor Day yesterday, which is normally in person. Of course, it was remote because of the current pandemic situation. We focused on new areas that we hadn't really did a deep dive into earlier this year. We had a webcast earlier this year in our -- did a deep dive into our neuro franchise, which, I think, is one of the best in the industry as well as our cardiometabolic franchise, we did a deep dive on earlier this year. Yesterday, we wanted to focus, as you said, Do, on some new things. The Ionis-owned pipeline and particularly how that's shaping up in our own cardiometabolic and neurological disease franchises, the drugs that we own and are in full control of. And second, the progress in those pipelines, the drugs that we're prioritizing. And as part of that presentation, we highlighted the really exciting data for the first time from our angiotensinogen program, a wholly-owned program for Ionis, in which we demonstrated, and we provided an update on the Phase II data, which showed pretty remarkable reductions in blood pressure in patients that were refractory to 2 or 3 medicines. These are drugs are -- these are patients that are on 2 or 3 other drugs as -- antihypertensive drugs and still couldn't control their blood pressure. And we showed quite an impressive level of blood pressure reduction in those patients. And we also highlighted, in the neuro pipeline, several drugs that are Ionis owned, including our prion program, which, we think, is a very exciting program that has a very rapid path to drug -- to drug approval. And that program is going to -- we're expecting to reach clinical testing next year. In addition, we highlighted what we just touched on a few minutes ago. The building of our commercial strategy. How we're going about it, where we are in implementing our commercial plans and what we're going to prioritize in the cardiometabolic and neuro franchise. And what we -- we said we're going to prioritize, there is the TTR LICA, the TTR amyloidosis program, our APOCIII program for triglyceride disorders and then the neuro -- wholly-owned neuro pipeline as well as considering other options for our hereditary angioedema drug and our acromegaly drug and our beta-thalassemia drug. Finally, we highlighted -- well, two other things. One was the technology improvements. Advances we're making across all aspects of our technology, including new routes of delivery, where we discussed the great progress we're making in pulmonary delivery of our antisense drugs. We now have 2 drugs in development for pulmonary diseases. And we had proof-of-concept this year for our lead drug, ENaC for -- which is now in a Phase II study in cystic fibrosis. And then also an update on our oral delivery program, which we're making solid progress on to move -- to potentially achieve commercially viable oral delivery in the future. And then finally, we did -- you said what the future and what is next year shaping up -- look like, we touched on that. We provided a glimpse. I provided a glimpse and a vision towards the future, including next year. Next year, we're expecting quite a lot of clinical data readouts, including the Phase III readout in our SOD1 ALS program, and 5 or 6 data readouts from our Phase II pipeline as well. And this is all setting us up, like I said earlier, for a really, what I think, is an impressive increase, a vast increase in the number of new products to reach market over the next few years. And we expect our next commercial product to be our SOD1 ALS drug, which is, as I said, due to read out next year. So a lot of news coming out next year and really setting us up for tremendous growth for years to come. 4 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 08, 2020 / 8:00PM, IONS.OQ - Ionis Pharmaceuticals Inc at BMO Capital Markets Growth & ESG Conference (Virtual) Guyn Kim - BMO Capital Markets Equity Research - Analyst Great. So let's go down that path, what your near-term growth drivers are, SOD1, you think, may be your next product on the market. Could you go over what disease that tackles? You're currently in partnership with Biogen for that development, perhaps discuss your current collaboration with them? And what your expectations are for that thermal trial? Brett P. Monia - Ionis Pharmaceuticals, Inc. - Founder, CEO & Director SOD1 ALS, our drug -- our lead drug for ALS is targeting a genetic form of ALS due to mutations in the SOD1 gene, really is important for so many reasons, is -- this is of course, important for patients suffering from ALS mutations in SOD1. And this is a particularly rapidly progressing form, very aggressive form of ALS due to mutations in that gene. And there's no treatment options really for -- certainly no disease-modifying treatment options for this disease. It's important for those patients. It's also important, I think, because it really will shine light on the potential of our other ALS drugs because it's a very, very similar mechanism. We're targeting the root causes of ALS. We have 3 other drugs that are in development for ALS, 2 others that are targeting other independent genetic causes of ALS. I mentioned SOD1. We also have a drug that's going to read out next year, a Phase II readout for mutations in a gene called C9ORF that target ALS. We're also planning to start a registrational study for a third genetic form of ALS targeting FUS mutations in a gene called FUS in ALS. That one is a wholly-owned program that Ionis is controlling. The first 2 I mentioned are with Biogen. And then we have a fourth drug in development for ALS that's tarting what's referred to as broad ALS, nongenetic forms of ALS, if you will. And that drug is also partnered with Biogen, which is now in a Phase II study in sporadic or broad ALS. So the SOD1 drug is important on its own right for SOD1 patients, but it's also, I think, will really give us insights and confidence that -- for the entire franchise for ALS that we have, which I think is the leading -- easily the leading franchise for tackling all forms of ALS. Our Biogen collaboration -- I should also say that we're feeling pretty good about side on ALS because the Phase II data was very encouraging. In our Phase II study that led to this initiation -- rapid initiation of Phase III, we actually saw pretty good evidence that patients were doing better on tofersen -- name of the drug is tofersen for SOD1 ALS. So we're feeling pretty good about the outcome in the study, and we can't wait for the data to read out next year. Our Biogen collaboration is a strategic partnership in neurological diseases in neuromuscular disease. It's a collaboration that has expanded 3, 4, 5x since we -- since our first partnership, which was focused initially on SPINRAZA. And it's a research and development and commercialization partnership, in which we work very closely on R&D. And then they are our commercial partner for the neurology drugs that enter the pipeline with Biogen. And it's quite a pipeline, in which we're working with them on broad indications like Alzheimer's and Parkinson's and also severe rare diseases like ALS. And neuro developmental diseases like Angelman's disease and many, many other serious neurological diseases. But in addition, we have the ability to grow our own pipeline independent of Biogen, which we're doing. I mentioned prion before. We also have our own -- and I mentioned FUS-ALS. That's one that we're running. And we also have other drugs in our neurological pipeline that are growing. And we expect the Ionis-owned neuro pipeline to grow rapidly and expand rapidly going forward. It's a top priority for us. Guyn Kim - BMO Capital Markets Equity Research - Analyst Wonderful. And I'm sure ALS patients and clinicians are excited to finally have a therapy that could potentially modify the disease and slow down progression. That's great. Before going into some of your owned -- wholly-owned neuro programs, can we spend some time talking about the Huntington's program with Roche. It's a data set that, I think, a lot of investors are anticipating. It is a disease where, similar to ALS, no real good treatments are out there. Where are we in that program? What can we look forward to? 5 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 08, 2020 / 8:00PM, IONS.OQ - Ionis Pharmaceuticals Inc at BMO Capital Markets Growth & ESG Conference (Virtual) Brett P. Monia - Ionis Pharmaceuticals, Inc. - Founder, CEO & Director Yes. But this is another very exciting late-stage type program in our late-stage neurological disease pipeline. We're -- the drug is tominersen and it targets the root cause of Huntington. It blocks the production of mutant Huntington protein in the central nervous system. And we have shown preclinically that when we administer this drug that we can actually reverse disease and prevent progression and even reverse disease progression in models of Huntington's disease. And we've shown preclinically, including in nonimmune primates and now in humans, very importantly, that we can substantially lower the levels of mutant Huntington in the central nervous system as measured by Huntington levels in the CSF that we can measure. And we've shown this that these reductions are very long-term, sustainable and well within the range that are predicted to show benefit in patients based on preclinical data. This study is -- as I said, is now in late-stage Phase III development. It's -- the name of the study is called Generation HD. It's about 800 Huntington disease patients. The study is fully enrolled. Patients are being treated for 25 months, and we're following the progression using our scale called the Huntington Disease Rating Scale. And this study has 3 treatment arms. It's placebo. Patients are being treated every 2 months and patients are being treated every 4 months. And again, in both scenarios, we're seeing reductions, and we're projected to get reductions in the Phase III study that are well within the range of efficacy based on preclinical data. This Phase III study is due to read out in 2022, and potentially file in 2022 based on -- depending on the data. Huge opportunity and huge unmet need, as you mentioned, Do, in patients with this genetic form of neurodegenerative disease that afflicts generations after generations of families. Next year, there's also data coming out from an open-label extension study from the Phase II study that we ran, in which patients are being followed for 15 months, noncontrolled. All patients are on tominersen. And an update on that study will be presented by Roche, our partner, in which they'll be looking -- showing more data on Huntington reductions. We'll also be looking at some clinical endpoints to help set the stage for what we expect -- might expect to see in Phase III the following year, safety and tolerability. And they'll also share some data next year on a natural history study that they initiated 15 months, again, which they're following the patients with Huntington's disease, their progression using similar endpoints as in the open-label extension in the Phase III study. So you get -- we'll be able to get a sense next year of how patients are doing on tominersen in a uncontrolled 15-month treatment arm as well as in a natural history, in which we're looking at how the disease progresses in these patients over 15 months. So next year will be very interesting for that. And it sets us up really well for the Phase III results in the following year. Guyn Kim - BMO Capital Markets Equity Research - Analyst Fantastic. And I sense that there's a level of confidence for antisense to work in these neuro programs. We're talking about genetic diseases, where it's been extremely difficult, if not impossible to get an effective therapy in. What's the basis of this confidence? And how can we use that to see whether your wholly-owned neuro programs have a chance of success in the clinic? Brett P. Monia - Ionis Pharmaceuticals, Inc. - Founder, CEO & Director Yes. Our -- when you think about neurological diseases, particularly neurodegenerative diseases, when you really think about the progress that's been made in the industry, it's pretty dismal. It's sad. And when you think about how long we've known about Huntington's disease and ALS and diseases like Alzheimer's disease, and how little progress has been made. Like I said, it's been pretty dismal. We worked on validating, asking the question, could we use RNA therapeutic strategies for neurodegenerative diseases? And we invested 10 years of research, understanding the medicinal chemistry and optimizing and understanding how to deliver and understanding the pharmacokinetics and safety and pharmacodynamic effects and the durability and so on. And that led to SPINRAZA, which is a blockbuster for the treatment for all 6 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 08, 2020 / 8:00PM, IONS.OQ - Ionis Pharmaceuticals Inc at BMO Capital Markets Growth & ESG Conference (Virtual) forms of spinomuscular atrophy, which is saving the lives and of babies with SMA and making people with older -- with less severe forms of SMA live better lives. So it's -- that was the first. And then right behind that, we've now shown, in patients with Huntington's disease, this durable reduction of the root cause of the disease, I mean Huntington, as I referred to earlier. So we're hitting the target that causes the disease. And then I referred to SOD1 ALS before. We were in our Phase II data, was very -- giving us a lot of confidence that this drug is going to help patients. And we also showed in that study that we can knock down the SOD1 mutant protein, the cause of that disease. So these are 3 programs that are showing -- giving us a lot of confidence clinically. Of course, we have a wealth of preclinical data that I don't -- I won't go into right now for dozens of programs. And then next year, we're going to build on that. We're going to have the SOD1 ALS Phase III data readout. We're going to have the C9ORF ALS data readout from Phase II that I mentioned before. We're going to have an update on the Phase II data in Alzheimer's patients that are treated with our antisense targeting tau, our MAPT program. I mean, this is just going to lend more and more confidence to the platform, our ability to tackle all forms of -- essentially all forms in neurodegenerative diseases. So it gives us great confidence because every -- all of our clinical studies are delivering on what we wanted them to deliver on so far. So -- and as far as the Ionis-owned neuro pipeline, it's much of the same. We're targeting root causes of diseases. And we're working in areas where there really are no treatment options available, whether it's your leukodystrophies like Alexander's disease or another form of ALS, targeting FUS mutations, or prion disease, a terrible disease that can either be genetically caused or sporadic forms of this protein, prion protein that causes rapid degeneration of the central nervous system in depth. We've shown, preclinically, that we can really impact these diseases in animal models. And we believe that like we're seeing with SOD1, Huntington and SPINRAZA or SMA, that we should be able to do the same in our own -- for our own drugs, for our own pipeline as well as our partnered programs in neurological diseases. Guyn Kim - BMO Capital Markets Equity Research - Analyst And while it sounds like you have a lot going on in the neurology franchise, you also have a completely separate and equally broadly reaching cardiovascular franchise. Can we talk about what is the next area of growth? And there you currently have WAYLIVRA approved. And even though TEGSEDI is a neuro targeting disease, but you are eventually going try to capture the cardio portion of that illness. What should we expect next out of that franchise? Brett P. Monia - Ionis Pharmaceuticals, Inc. - Founder, CEO & Director Absolutely, the biggest contributor from our pipeline are really, what I see is, really substantial growth over the next few years is in neurological diseases and cardiovascular diseases. And cardiovascular is a big one, just like neuro. In cardiovascular today, we have 3 Phase III studies in progress. And if we get a chance to, maybe we could talk about pelacarsen the Lp(a) program, which is really the biggest opportunity. But for the Ionis-owned -- and that's partnered with Novartis. But for the Ionis-owned pipeline, we have 2 big drivers in the cardiovascular space. One is our treatment for TTR amyloidosis, a follow-on medicine to TEGSEDI. As I said earlier, TEGSEDI is just tackling the polyneuropathy form of a hereditary version of TTR amyloidosis. But the follow-on is targeting the big indication -- the biggest indication, which is the cardiomyopathy indication, which is -- there are -- there is a genetic component to it, but the vast majority of the patients with this disease suffer from cardiomyopathy and eventually, it's a lethal disease. It's a very large end market, and that's a drug that's in Phase III that we're running our TTR LICA drug that's in a Phase III cardiovascular outcome trial. The other drug that we're running Phase III on, it's really another big value driver that you referred to as our drug that is really outstanding drug that manages triglyceride disorders. We're now in Phase III. These are patients with very high triglycerides that cause severe metabolic diseases, particularly high-risk for pancreatitis, which can be lethal or -- and/or cardiovascular disease due to very high triglycerides over long periods of 7 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 08, 2020 / 8:00PM, IONS.OQ - Ionis Pharmaceuticals Inc at BMO Capital Markets Growth & ESG Conference (Virtual) time. This drug, another LICA, our most advanced chemistry targets APOCIII, a protein that is a master regulator of triglycerides. We've shown substantial reductions in triglyceride in patients with very high triglycerides in several different clinical trials. And the familial chylomicronemia syndrome patients, the FCS, which is now in Phase III for patients with triglycerides above 1,000. These are patients with milky white blood due to high triglycerides, and their risk is pancreatitis. But in addition -- and that's an ultra-rare disease, 3,000 to 5,000 patients or so around the world, but in big, big need for a drug. But the bigger upmarket opportunities are several. One is a disease population that we call sHTG, or severe hypertriglyceridemia patients. These are patients that aren't as high as FCS, but they're high, about 500 or so. And they, too, are at very high-risk of pancreatitis and -- which can be lethal. And this is millions of people in the United States alone. And we're confident that this drug will control triglycerides in all triglyceride disorders, including in this patient population. And we're thinking about starting a Phase III study in that patient population potentially next year in addition to FCS. And then there's the third population, which is are just patients that have a cardiovascular -- they are at risk for cardiovascular death or morbidity due to mildly high triglycerides, in the 200 to 500 range, if you will. And that's also an opportunity for us, which is even bigger than the sHTG market opportunity. And we're considering how to target that population as well. So big, big opportunities in the Ionis-owned cardiovascular pipeline in late-stage development in TTR LICA and APOCIII LICA. Guyn Kim - BMO Capital Markets Equity Research - Analyst And you also previously talked about hypertension. Is that an opportunity for Ionis to commercialize on its own? Or is it one of those bigger commercialization efforts that you're going to look for a partner to do? Brett P. Monia - Ionis Pharmaceuticals, Inc. - Founder, CEO & Director We're planning to -- yes, we think this is a really good-looking drug right now based on the Phase II data we've generated in patients with refractory hypertension as well as in patients who are controlled on antihypertensive agents. But then we show that we can replace those antihypertensive agents with our drug, AGT-LRx, and we were able to keep them under control. This is a drug we're planning to bring forward through Phase II and then eventually Phase III ourselves. We'll consider a partner at some point if it makes sense and as it makes sense. Obviously, this is tens of millions of people suffering from refractory hypertension around the globe, and having a partner to maximize the value of a product like this to potentially help us through Phase III, but also commercialization, could make sense at some point. So we're planning on moving this forward ourselves for quite a while now, and we'll decide on what's the best partnering strategy to work with Ionis to maximize the value of the product down the road. But right now, we're going this alone. Guyn Kim - BMO Capital Markets Equity Research - Analyst Okay. And throughout our conversation, you talked about LICA drug and the LICA technology. I think that a great advancement in your platform. Maybe we could spend some time on what we could expect next coming, in terms of next-generation technology and your efforts in aerosol and oral forms of your therapies? Brett P. Monia - Ionis Pharmaceuticals, Inc. - Founder, CEO & Director Sure. There's new routes of delivery, like you just referred to, aerosol and oral. And then there's also new LICAs, Do, that I think are worth highlighting, that are opening up new organ systems, such as pancreas and skeletal muscle. And we're getting pretty close, and we're thinking that we might 8 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 08, 2020 / 8:00PM, IONS.OQ - Ionis Pharmaceuticals Inc at BMO Capital Markets Growth & ESG Conference (Virtual) have a new LICA to open up new organ systems for new -- to tackle new diseases, potentially reaching development next year and we'll touch on that if we have time. You asked about aerosol and oral, aerosol delivery for pulmonary disease is very exciting. This is a platform or an approach in which we get the drug into the lung, deep into the lung, and we can penetrate and get into cells and show target engagement in the presence or absence of like a thick mucus layer, which can be present in COPD, cystic fibrosis and so on. And we showed this year that we can get very good target reduction of our lead program, ENaC, targeting the epithelial sodium channel in normal volunteers, and this drug now is in cystic fibrosis in a Phase II study due to readout next year. It's also in a Phase II study in COPD chronic bronchitis as well. And we think that this could turn into -- we referred to it before as cardiovascular and neurological diseases, those are 2 main franchises. Pulmonary could -- has a potential to grow into a third franchise. We have a second drug going into development that will be in clinical testing next year for lung diseases, fibrosis. And we are expecting a third late next year, maybe the following year for lung diseases, IPF. And so we see this growing as a franchise. And one of the advantages, I forgot to mention before, I was going to say, is that we get the drug not only into the lung, but we also have minimal systemic exposure. So that's a key advantage. You want to get the drug to where you want it to go, and you want to limit the exposure to other organ systems. And we have insignificant levels in the peripheral blood system when we deliver to the lung. So this is an emerging franchise. As for oral delivery, we're continuing to work on oral delivery. We've made great progress over the last few years with our partner, AstraZeneca, as well as ourselves. We had a bit of a step back, and we talked about it yesterday in that we decided with AstraZeneca to stop the oral Phase I PCSK9 program. But I think that people should appreciate the fact that both companies have been sought enough to give us confidence that, we think, the oral -- commercial vial oral delivery, will be successful in the future with our platform. And that's why both companies are continuing to invest in expanding our research collaboration to optimize oral delivery for the future for all of our drugs in our pipeline that we think would benefit from an oral strategy. The other reason to do it was because the subcu PCSK9 program is just showing such impressive results. And AstraZeneca is really focusing on getting that drug to Phase III development as rapidly as possible as a potential best-in-class PCSK9 inhibitor of any in the field. Guyn Kim - BMO Capital Markets Equity Research - Analyst Even though we've run out of time. I want to pose 1 more question since we had a delay in the start. So you -- Ionis has been able to accomplish so much in pipeline development, primarily because you have partnered your drug and avoided expenses and costs related to late-stage development and commercialization. Now that you are advancing your wholly-owned products through -- all the way through approval and commercializing on your own, how are you going to balance the investment in your own pipeline and pushing revenue growth? How do you look at that going forward? Brett P. Monia - Ionis Pharmaceuticals, Inc. - Founder, CEO & Director So we are in a very enviable position of having such a strong balance sheet, strong financial position. We've been profitable over the last 4 or 5 years in a row. Our guidance this year is to be net profitable, again, and meaningfully profitable, and we're expecting to hit our guidance this year. We have the advantage of revenue streams from multiple sources. We have revenue streams from our partnerships, which provide revenue in forms of upfront milestone payments and royalties. And our royalties have gotten quite attractive over the years with being well into the 20% range with a number of our key programs for large indications with partners like Pfizer, Novartis and others. In addition, we have our commercial revenue from drugs like SPINRAZA and TEGSEDI and so on. And we're expecting a vast increase in the number of commercial revenue in the near-term in the next several years as the products I mentioned before, reach market, both the partners as well as our own drugs to reach the market. 9 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 08, 2020 / 8:00PM, IONS.OQ - Ionis Pharmaceuticals Inc at BMO Capital Markets Growth & ESG Conference (Virtual) So continued financial growth, revenue growth is something we expect to do -- see just from both R&D partner revenue as well as commercial revenue. With that said, we believe in investing as a #1 priority at Ionis over the next couple of years to maximize the value that the technology brings to shareholders, patients, to the company because we think that there's a lot of opportunity for investing in building our Ionis-owned pipeline, building in our -- building up our commercial capabilities to maximize the value of the Ionis-owned pipeline, but also to invest in new technologies that expand the scope of antisense technology. And eventually, in the future, also diversify the types of platforms we have at Ionis that complement antisense, but do things different than antisense to deliver even new types of drugs for the long term. So profitability is something that we've done very well over the last few years. It's not the #1 priority over the next couple of years because, I think, we're going to have massive profitability for -- once all these drugs start hitting the market over the next few years. I think we'll still have a good shot at profitability and revenue growth, for sure, revenue growth, but we are going to be investing in building our commercial and Ionis-owned pipelines as well as technology going forward to really bring what we think is the maximum value to the company. Guyn Kim - BMO Capital Markets Equity Research - Analyst Wonderful. Brett, thank you so much for joining us today. Congrats on all the progress. And I think Ionis has a bright future. I appreciate your time here. Brett P. Monia - Ionis Pharmaceuticals, Inc. - Founder, CEO & Director Thanks, Do. It was a pleasure. DISCLAIMER Refinitiv reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes. In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized. THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES REFINITIV OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS. 2020, Refinitiv. All Rights Reserved. 13537435-2020-12-08T23:05:05.097 10 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 08, 2020 / 8:00PM, IONS.OQ - Ionis Pharmaceuticals Inc at BMO Capital Markets Growth & ESG Conference (Virtual)
REFINITIV STREETEVENTS EDITED TRANSCRIPT ATI.N - Allegheny Technologies Inc Transformation Announcement Corporate Call EVENT DATE/TIME: DECEMBER 02, 2020 / 3:00PM GMT REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS Donald P. Newman Allegheny Technologies Incorporated - SVP of Finance & CFO Robert S. Wetherbee Allegheny Technologies Incorporated - President, CEO & Director Scott A. Minder Allegheny Technologies Incorporated - VP of IR & Treasurer CONFERENCE CALL PARTICIPANTS David Egon Strauss Barclays Bank PLC, Research Division - Research Analyst Gautam J. Khanna Cowen and Company, LLC, Research Division - MD & Senior Analyst Joshua Ward Sullivan The Benchmark Company, LLC, Research Division - Senior Equity Research Analyst Philip Ross Gibbs KeyBanc Capital Markets Inc., Research Division - Director & Equity Research Analyst Stephen Levenson PRESENTATION Operator Good morning, and welcome to the Allegheny Technologies Incorporated Strategic Transformation Conference Call. (Operator Instructions) Please note, this event is being recorded. I would now like to turn the conference over to Scott Minder, Vice President, Treasurer and Investor Relations. Please go ahead, sir. Scott A. Minder - Allegheny Technologies Incorporated - VP of IR & Treasurer Good morning, everyone. Thanks for joining today's call announcing the next big step toward ATI's future. This call is being broadcast on our website at atimetals.com. Participating in the call today are Bob Wetherbee, President and Chief Executive Officer; and Don Newman, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. You've connected to this call via the Internet, you should see slides on your screen. For those of you who dialed in, slides are available on our website. After our prepared remarks, we will open the line for questions. Please note that all forward-looking statements are subject to various assumptions and caveats as noted in the press release and shown on this slide. Now I will turn the call over to Bob. Robert S. Wetherbee - Allegheny Technologies Incorporated - President, CEO & Director Thanks, Scott. Welcome, everyone. Thanks for joining this call on short notice. Today's announcement marks a big moment for us. It's a major milestone toward our becoming a more profitable company, delivering on our commitment to our shareholders. We're sharpening our focus on the markets that most appreciate what we do and reward us accordingly. I'm excited to tell you what this means to our future. I'll start on Slide 3. This morning, we announced actions within the Advanced Alloys & Solutions segment. We're exiting standard stainless sheet products, our lowest-margin product line. We also announced we're streamlining our footprint and investing to enhance our specialty capabilities. These actions accelerate the execution of our high-value strategy and intensify focus on the aerospace and defense markets. We're taking what we do best, our core strengths in material science and advanced process technologies and applying them to further penetrate differentiated applications, offering high returns. 2 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 02, 2020 / 3:00PM, ATI.N - Allegheny Technologies Inc Transformation Announcement Corporate Call By doing this, we expect an EBITDA margin improvement in the segment of nearly 90%. That's as compared to 2019 and occurring over time as the aerospace market recovers. We are confident that most of this improvement is in our control as we optimize our footprint. At a high level, we'll accomplish the strategic transformation through 2 steps. First, by ceasing production at 5 locations by year-end 2021. We're well on our way already having idled 2 of the 5. Secondly, we're investing to upgrade and consolidate our footprint to give ATI best-in-class specialty sheet fencing operations. We'll have some of the best capabilities in the industry. So let me stop here to underscore 2 really key points. First, we're really taking action to address a long-standing challenge, the underperforming standard stainless sheet product line. And it's time. During the downturn, you may recall, we've talked about it. We took significant actions to adjust cost structure and release working capital, especially in our standard stainless sheet business. As the economy recovers, we're facing a decision. How should we invest in working capital to support the underperforming product? The answer is no. We still struggle to get a return. ATI was not competitive in standard stainless before COVID. That's not going to change. Some of the problem is our cost structure, some of it is the structure of the U.S. industry. And that leads me to my second point. The business is funding its own transformation. We're releasing standard stainless sheet working capital, primarily inventory and receivables, deploying it to upgrade capabilities serving strategic markets. Plus, largely self-funding over 3 years and generating a return on the investment that's 3x ATI's cost of capital. We're taking unprecedented action in an unprecedented time. Okay, Scott, let's get back to the prepared remarks. Turning to Slide 4. Let's take a look at this announcement from a big picture standpoint, where it puts ATI. These actions put us on the path to become the aerospace and defense company we're meant to be. Once completed, we'll have a product portfolio focused exclusively on these high-value products that meet the demanding requirements we're known for. It goes without saying, but I'm going to say it anyway, that end markets with highly engineered specifications and stringent quality requirements are higher margins for those who can deliver capable solutions. That's our sweet spot. We do that with our unmatched material science capabilities, advanced process technologies every day. We're enhancing ATI's revenue mix to optimize the materials that solve our customers' greatest challenges. We'll significantly increase our profitability as the aerospace market and broad global economy recover. Our targeted revenue mix is 70% aerospace and defense, with another 20% in differentiated applications like specialty energy, medical and consumer electronics. All of these products will be high value. So why is this a big deal for ATI? It's clearly a big deal for us because we've made substantial progress and have increased line of sight to give us confidence to declare our revenue mix targets. 70% aerospace and defense is within reach, and we're committed to getting there. And 20% of that additional revenue for us is in differentiated applications that leverage ATI strengths, both material science and advanced process technologies. And they come with aero-like margins, and that's the key to our future, a stronger position for the coming recovery. And equally importantly, we're doing it now, but we have the opportunity to get it right, get it in place and be ready to capture the opportunity as it comes back to us. It's an important moment for us. Moving to Slide 5. Let's look at the impact of this announcement within our AA&S segment. Using 2019 as a baseline, the pro forma impact of today's announced actions is a $445 million decrease in revenue. This is a very low-margin product line. You can see that EBITDA remains flat despite the revenue reduction, resulting in a 200 basis point improvement in margin for AA&S. That's important, but it's really just simple math. The real driver here is that these actions position the segment to reach margins of 15% or more over time. We'll achieve this margin expansion in 2 ways: cost reduction and a richer product mix. The majority of the improvement comes from significant cost takeouts, driven by our dispersed footprint. These are things within our control, and we've already proven we're pretty good at executing. To achieve the target, we do assume the aerospace market and broader economy recover to near pre-COVID levels, but we're not waiting for that recovery to happen. We have actions underway that will deliver benefits as they're executed. We plan to be out of the standard stainless sheet business in about 6 months, idle most of the operations we've identified in 12. We'll have the majority of savings within 12 to 18 months, hitting the run rate in early 2022. Then we improve AA&S' competitive position as we install and commission new equipment, expected to be complete in 24 to 30 months. That will be transformative for the business and completed in less than 3 years. 3 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 02, 2020 / 3:00PM, ATI.N - Allegheny Technologies Inc Transformation Announcement Corporate Call As we demonstrated in our immediate response to the global pandemic, we understand that speed matters, and we're accelerating. An additional benefit of these actions is increased earnings stability as we reduce the AA&S segment's exposure to nickel and other volatile commodity prices by 2/3. We also made progress toward our goal of eliminating pension funding obligations. You've heard me say several times we don't want to be in the pension business, and we're committed to removing the variability it brings. These actions take us 1 step closer to making that a reality. Turning to Slide 6. Let's talk about where this upgrade and consolidation will take us. The rolled products part of AA&S' current flow path has multiple finishing sites that were pieced together over time, mainly through acquisitions. It was built to serve various end markets that primarily rely on distributors and product standardization. In this structure, our Hot Rolling and Processing Facility, the HRPF, was essential to expanding our specialty capabilities. The strategy in 2008, when the decision to make this investment was made, was rooted in a higher volume approach. But the world has changed dramatically since we originally envisioned this asset. Today, we announced an asset impairment that included the HRPF. In our analysis, we've taken a very realistic view of our future demand. We control for the variables that we can and have taken a conservative view of those outside our control. Moving on to the consolidated footprint. We're repositioning our assets and operations to create a purpose-built flow path for plate, specialty sheet and precision rolled strip, significantly streamlined, built on the best assets in the industry operated with ATI's unique material science expertise. You've likely heard me say that there's more favorable products than stainless steel. And our actions today are going to unleash that. There are elements within the specialty rolled products business already earning aero-like margins. We'll further exploit these markets using the assets we already have, along with the enhancements we announced today. Our Vandergrift, Pennsylvania, facility has begun shifting its product mix to produce specialty sheet. We'll further build our capabilities there, investing between $65 million and $85 million of incremental CapEx over a 3-year period. It's important to understand this investment will be largely self-funded by ongoing working capital releases from the exit of standard stainless sheet and operational flow improvements from the footprint consolidation. We expect this project to deliver returns about 3x our cost of capital. We'll install a new bright anneal line with the newest technology in the industry by early 2023, gaining state-of-the-art control systems, quality, surface finish and improved cycle time. Vandergrift is the ideal site for upgraded and consolidated sheet finishing operation. Its proximity to our Brackenridge, Pennsylvania, site and the HRPF will enable reduced flow times, operational efficiency and efficient rail transport and help us to keep our inventory levels low. So what's the bottom line here? Very simple. 2 dedicated flow paths; 1 for the specialty sheet products and 1 for plate products. Gives us the opportunity to optimize and improve our flow times in a highly efficient footprint, which we expect to give us tremendous advantage as the market recovers, and we're able to respond to our customers in a very fast way. It's a true trifecta. What is that? Excellent specialty melt assets, including a state-of-the-art furnace in Latrobe, Pennsylvania. World-class rolling, powered by the HRPF to hit exacting standards. You've heard me say it many times, wider, thinner, faster, higher quality given flow times that nearly anyone in the world cannot meet, okay? We're in a great position. And now finishing capabilities that will be among the best in the industry. We'll have market-leading flow times for a range of specialty products. It's a great list, titanium, nickel, cobalt, zirconium, hafnium, niobium and tantalum. Specialty materials used in very demanding applications around the world. The best assets, the best people for great markets, and we're positioned to win with and for our customers. Go to Slide 7. We're also changing the way we manage our business segments. After 25 years with ATI, John Sims has expressed his intention to retire. As you know, John has been instrumental to our growth in the aerospace and defense markets. His vision and dedication have helped position ATI as a critical supplier of advanced materials and components for next-generation jet engines. Thanks to his passion, ATI is set to achieve future success. I thank John for his leadership and service to ATI. Across our time together, we've not just been colleagues, we become friends. I count on John to tell me what he thinks, and he always does. Often succinctly in just a few words and to think big for ATI's success. And I truly value his insights. 4 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 02, 2020 / 3:00PM, ATI.N - Allegheny Technologies Inc Transformation Announcement Corporate Call With John's pending retirement, we're evolving to a leaner, more focused organization. We'll combine segment leadership for HPMC and AA&S under Kim Fields. We believe this new leadership structure will more closely align priorities across the businesses, driving more integrated actions and faster decision-making. I have tremendous confidence in Kim. Having watched her lead the team integrating the AA&S segment and adjusting its cost structure to meet the new expectation of future demand. This work, most notably in the specialty rolled products business unit, is a key enabler to execute the strategic move we announced today, positioning specialty rolled products to be globally capable and sustainably profitable. Kim has a history of being a transformational leader. That's why we brought her to ATI, and the organic growth opportunities within our business segments play to her strengths. So let's wrap up and close with Slide 8. To recap, we're laser-focused on specialty products for strategic markets. We've taken and will continue to take actions to accelerate this strategy. Our goal is clear: create significant shareholder value. In the first quarter 2020, we realigned our business segments, creating cost and commercial synergies and driving increased organizational focus. We've responded to the challenges brought on by the pandemic by variabilizing our cost structure. In essence, we've changed our definition of what is a fixed cost. Today, we announced our next leap forward. Exiting standard stainless products, transforming our specialty rolled products business by rightsizing capacity and enhancing efficiency. We're upgrading and consolidating to make the most at the moment we find ourselves in. This is a major milestone toward our becoming a more profitable company, delivering on our commitment to our shareholders. As I said earlier, our path is clear. We know where we're going. We're gaining velocity. [If there are] engineers on the call, important thing about velocity is you got to have speed in a very defined direction. And I think we're gaining velocity every day. We're intensifying our focus on aerospace and defense markets and the differentiated applications that deliver aero-like margins that hasn't been able to be something we could say in the past. It's something that we're committed to moving forward, and we're taking action. Now it's about taking what we do best, our core strengths in material science and advanced process technologies, along with our relentless, innovative people to solve the world's toughest challenges. With that, Don Newman will join me as the operator opens the line for questions. QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS Operator (Operator Instructions) The first question will be from Phil Gibbs with KeyBanc Capital Markets. Philip Ross Gibbs - KeyBanc Capital Markets Inc., Research Division - Director & Equity Research Analyst So if I'm looking at the numbers here correctly, in 2019, you had about $1.1 billion in aerospace and defense sales. Can you remind us what -- what is in that business specifically? Because from what I remember, there's very little, if any, engine after your resegmentation? Robert S. Wetherbee - Allegheny Technologies Incorporated - President, CEO & Director Phil, you're talking about the Advanced Alloys & Solutions segment, the $1.1 billion? Philip Ross Gibbs - KeyBanc Capital Markets Inc., Research Division - Director & Equity Research Analyst $1.1 billion of aerospace and defense sales in 2019 and AA&S? What's in that number? 5 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 02, 2020 / 3:00PM, ATI.N - Allegheny Technologies Inc Transformation Announcement Corporate Call Robert S. Wetherbee - Allegheny Technologies Incorporated - President, CEO & Director Yes. So it's heavy in defense, right? We have some major programs that we've won over time. A lot of armor ground, armor-type systems. And clearly, the other chunk of it for us is the airframe side, where we'll actually, in 2019, I think the pro forma that you're looking at was mostly the titanium plate that goes into airframes, that will be the basis for gaining more share as we go into 2020, 2021. It will be the predominant, too. Philip Ross Gibbs - KeyBanc Capital Markets Inc., Research Division - Director & Equity Research Analyst Okay. So largely defense and the airframe business. So it's (inaudible) still. Robert S. Wetherbee - Allegheny Technologies Incorporated - President, CEO & Director Yes. I think one thing about defense is really the nuclear Navy for us is a big part of what we do in defense, in addition to a whole host of other applications. Philip Ross Gibbs - KeyBanc Capital Markets Inc., Research Division - Director & Equity Research Analyst So if I look -- just so I have this correctly, in AA&S in 2019, you had about $2.1 billion in sales with an 8% margin, including the stainless business. Seems like your expectations are that the aerospace business in -- with defense eventually recovers to 2019 levels, whereby aerospace and defense is 70% of the business. So my math says that's about $1.6 billion in sales for this business. And then you said with a 15% margin, that would be about $70 million of EBITDA improvement. How much of that EBITDA improvement is efficiency based or will be a direct result from you reorienting your portfolio? Donald P. Newman - Allegheny Technologies Incorporated - SVP of Finance & CFO So Phil, this is Don. Let me take a run at answering that question. And I know you were kind of shifting between segment level and consolidated levels. So we'll try to make sure that we're keeping pace in terms of how you're viewing the cutdown. But here's the bottom line. As you look at the benefits of the actions that we're announcing today, consider that $1.7 billion of revenues in the AA&S business ex stainless steel, a 500 basis point improvement in EBITDA margins represents, by math, almost $100 million of incremental EBITDA. As you [burn] into that $100 million of additional EBITDA that we're creating through this process, think of it in terms of about 70% of that is tied to cost reductions with streamlining our footprint and eliminating some of the costs related to the facilities that are being shut down. So about $70 million of the $100 million. The rest of that, of course, is really tied into volumes, which should come with end market recoveries in part and -- but that's generally the way to think about, the baskets of value that are being created here. Philip Ross Gibbs - KeyBanc Capital Markets Inc., Research Division - Director & Equity Research Analyst Okay. That's -- that's very clear. And then my last question is just on the CapEx of the stainless business. I know you're investing 65 -- $85 million of Vandergrift, which I would imagine is part of your $70 million of streamlining over the next couple of years. But just remind me what the CapEx of the stainless business is? Robert S. Wetherbee - Allegheny Technologies Incorporated - President, CEO & Director I -- yes. The normal CapEx levels are in the business? 6 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 02, 2020 / 3:00PM, ATI.N - Allegheny Technologies Inc Transformation Announcement Corporate Call Philip Ross Gibbs - KeyBanc Capital Markets Inc., Research Division - Director & Equity Research Analyst Well, yes, you're getting rid of commodity stainless effectively, and there were certainly some sort of recurring CapEx tied to that business. So I would assume that goes away. But what's that number? Donald P. Newman - Allegheny Technologies Incorporated - SVP of Finance & CFO So here's the way to think about it, Phil. What you're really trying to drill into is, guys, what's the delta that I should be thinking about versus the existing run rate. And the way to think about it is, we're going to be saving ourselves probably between $5 million and $10 million a year in sustaining CapEx with this change. Operator The next question will be from Josh Sullivan of the Benchmark Company. Joshua Ward Sullivan - The Benchmark Company, LLC, Research Division - Senior Equity Research Analyst Bob, Don, and congrats to both John and Kim. Just as far as the working capital release, do you anticipate the cash flow to kind of exactly match the reinvestment? Or could there be some variation? And I think, when you guys exited grain-oriented steel, does that provide a flow path here? Just how do you think this plays out relative to when you guys exited those businesses? Just on the (inaudible) Donald P. Newman - Allegheny Technologies Incorporated - SVP of Finance & CFO I'm glad you asked that. So here's the punch line. It's our target to try to match as best we can the working capital releases with the capital spending that we shared, the $65 million to $85 million. That's our objective. Now I could imagine that there could be periods where it could be plus or minus. I think in terms of, A, we're probably going to spend that $65 million to $85 million relatively evenly over the next 24 to 30 months, and we would expect generally the working capital releases to largely match that. Joshua Ward Sullivan - The Benchmark Company, LLC, Research Division - Senior Equity Research Analyst Okay. And then just a follow-up on that $30 million of the recovery in the markets that you're assuming, is that in aero? Is it defense? I mean you list out the differentiated applications in specialty energy, medical, consumer electronics. Can you just go through that $30 million? And where you're anticipating the recovery? Donald P. Newman - Allegheny Technologies Incorporated - SVP of Finance & CFO Yes. And in broad strokes, the way to think about it is not in individual pieces, but in general, you've got some key drivers in that recovery. One is the commercial aerospace, which is obviously a really important part of our business. And then we know that with the recovery in the general economy around medical and other key areas that we'll see some revenue growth as we get back to a pre-COVID world. So I would just look at it as kind of a holistic economic recovery, but certainly, commercial aerospace is an important part of it. Operator The next question will be from Gautam Khanna of Cowen. 7 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 02, 2020 / 3:00PM, ATI.N - Allegheny Technologies Inc Transformation Announcement Corporate Call Gautam J. Khanna - Cowen and Company, LLC, Research Division - MD & Senior Analyst Congratulations to all of the guys, John and Kim and Rich (sic) [Bob] and Don on this decision. I was going to ask a couple of questions. And the first one, just a basic one. What is the run rate D&A now of AA&S that we should be thinking about? Robert S. Wetherbee - Allegheny Technologies Incorporated - President, CEO & Director I would say the run rate DA -- did you say, I didn't hear quite here. Was that DA or a bit more, was it GA? Gautam J. Khanna - Cowen and Company, LLC, Research Division - MD & Senior Analyst Depreciation and amortization. So that -- I'm just trying to back into what the EBIT level will be once we've taken the write-down and everything else? Donald P. Newman - Allegheny Technologies Incorporated - SVP of Finance & CFO Yes. So what I was going to say is the number I've got in my head that I can give you immediately is the delta. And so the way you want to think about it is we would expect relative to 2019 or even 2020 levels, when you look at 2021, depreciation and amortization, that'll drop about $10 million in 2021. So that's how you want to think about it. As far as the run rate goes, let me test my memory a little bit, and I'll give that to you here in a second. Probably something in that $65 million range, and that will drop down by roughly $10 million -- by roughly $10 million. So sorry, I didn't have it (inaudible) Gautam J. Khanna - Cowen and Company, LLC, Research Division - MD & Senior Analyst No, Don. It's okay. I appreciate it. And then maybe just another -- a big picture question, Rich. I'm sorry, I don't know why I keep calling you, Rich, I'm so sorry. I don't know what's my problem. Yes. It's horrible. Anyway, I was going to ask you just big picture because you used to run the flat-rolled segments and you lived through the HRPF development and all that. What are the lessons learned, if there are any? I mean it sounded like a pretty -- at the time, it sounded like a great idea to talk about $150 million to $250 million of EBIT improvement once it got operational. But I was just curious, like what are the lessons learned? What changed? How do you -- how does it inform your views on organic CapEx investment going forward? Just -- because it was a big project, and obviously, it didn't turn out. But what should we kind of take away from that? Robert S. Wetherbee - Allegheny Technologies Incorporated - President, CEO & Director So appreciate the question. A couple of things here. Number one is the HRPF actually delivered the technology that it was intended to deliver and more so. So from a technological standpoint, it's great. And we have a specialty rolled products business today because of it. And so it was a huge enabler to the decision we're actually making today. If we had the old mill, we wouldn't have been having this conversation. When you think about what we've learned as an organization, it's probably what everyone else is learning in the business world, too, is speed matters. The world changed a lot since 2008 when the decision was made. You think about the grain-oriented electrical steel business and certainly, our position in stainless, but the competitive nature and the structure of the industry changed as well. So for us, speed is a key part of the decision-making for us. I think the other thing that we've learned a lot about is sometimes you have to test the paradigms that you live with. What's the fixed cost, right? We've done a lot of work managing the things within our control, and we've certainly taken on a lot of issues to think about our supply chain differently. 8 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 02, 2020 / 3:00PM, ATI.N - Allegheny Technologies Inc Transformation Announcement Corporate Call So I think from a -- how has the HRPF impacted our thinking and the experience, great technologically, got to move fast to capitalize up in the market and don't be wedded to old paradigms about your cost structure. And if you think differently and the pandemic certainly was a great catalyst for that, not that we weren't thinking about this problem, I think the day I met you and Rich was with me, that's why we look alike, a lot alike, the challenge is sometimes you got to think differently about the business and the pandemic, whether it forced us to do it or enabled us to do it, we did it. Gautam J. Khanna - Cowen and Company, LLC, Research Division - MD & Senior Analyst No, I appreciate that perspective. And just maybe thinking about the next 5 years or as you reposition to the higher end markets, are there any big CapEx projects that you think you guys might need? Like big ones, a couple of hundred million type of investments? And if so, in what areas? Robert S. Wetherbee - Allegheny Technologies Incorporated - President, CEO & Director Yes. I think in the Advanced Alloys & Solutions segment, the answer is no. We're -- to have the HRPF and certainly, the state-of-the-art melting and Latrobe that we've upgraded over the last year or 2, and now this bright anneal was the last major issue for us to make sure we had the capability for the future. And so no. On AA&S, no. I think on the high-performance materials and components side, it's all a matter of the growth in aerospace and particularly the jet engine business. So you may see some capability investments, but nothing in the $200 million, $300 million range, for sure. Operator The next question will be from David Strauss of Barclays. David Egon Strauss - Barclays Bank PLC, Research Division - Research Analyst Bob, I think you mentioned about the impact on pension and your liability there with regard to this move but you didn't offer anything kind of quantitative. Maybe you or Don can help us understand what this means from a pension perspective going forward? Donald P. Newman - Allegheny Technologies Incorporated - SVP of Finance & CFO Sure. This is Don. Let me give you some perspective. So we've been on this glide path for the last number of years that really is pointed toward us eliminating our pension -- or net pension obligation. And what you see in the actions that we announced today, are really supportive of continuing and accelerating that glide path. What do I mean? If you think about the levers that are available to work down a net pension obligation, there's a few very distinct levers you want to keep in mind. One is, you want to close out your plan to new entrants. We can check that box for us, we're already there. The second thing that's really important is to reduce the number of active participants. Those are folks that are continuing to earn additional benefits every shift that they work. Well, the actions that we're taking today are going to reduce the number of actives. So we had talked about an incremental 400 folks coming out of the organization as a result of these plant shutdowns. Think in terms of probably half of those folks are active participants in the plant. So that will reduce the number, probably in the range of 15% to 20% over time. So that's very important. Another important lever that's available to us is if you think about actuarial benefits -- our actuarial calculations rather, things like discount rates. Well, the fewer active participants that you have, the less impactful those actuarial adjustments are. So it reduces the volatility in that liability. And so what we're doing here today is, in my mind, a very clear and important part of continuing the glide path, which will end with our pension net liability being the minimum. 9 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 02, 2020 / 3:00PM, ATI.N - Allegheny Technologies Inc Transformation Announcement Corporate Call And I think you've heard Bob say numerous times, we don't want to be in the pension business, and we've been very, very active as an organization at getting out of that part of the business. And so we're excited about this next step. David Egon Strauss - Barclays Bank PLC, Research Division - Research Analyst And any time frame, Don, in terms of when the contribution side will be fairly de minimis and not impact the cash flow as much as it does today? Donald P. Newman - Allegheny Technologies Incorporated - SVP of Finance & CFO Yes. I think in broad strokes, what you want to think about is probably in the next 4 years to 5 years, it becomes a very -- certainly, in that time frame, it should become de minimis based on the actions that we're taking. David Egon Strauss - Barclays Bank PLC, Research Division - Research Analyst Okay. And Bob, I guess a bit of a follow-up on Gautam. Coming from an aerospace guy that doesn't really understand this side of the business, the stainless side of the business that well, I mean, this always seems like an obvious move to us that you guys should make. But I know as it's come up over the years, it was -- you couldn't do it because the production facilities were kind of co-mingled and you couldn't -- it wasn't easy to go about doing this. So I guess what changed there? What's the risk in doing this in terms of any sort of disruptions? Or I mean, was this just purely that for years, you've been holding on to this idea of the demand side would be there? And it just -- you just don't see a pathway to it being there, and that's the reason to do this now? Robert S. Wetherbee - Allegheny Technologies Incorporated - President, CEO & Director Yes. That's a pretty all-encompassing question, David. So I'll give it a shot here. But I think it kind of fits into the vernacular about what's the future, right? We look forward and said if the industry structure going to change, how are we going to change our cost competitiveness. We certainly, over the last 3 or 4 years, have tried a lot of different things to make sure that our stainless business was going to be successful and return the cost of capital. And we just got to the point where the crisis of the pandemic came. We learned a lot. Took some really good action, great action about our cost structure. And the challenge we've always had with the stainless business is its footprint. And we're managing as many as 7 or 8 different locations across the country. And we needed to consolidate to release the inventory, a lot less freight, a lot less time. And it gives us an opportunity to leverage our people. A good example of that is Vandergrift, Pennsylvania, is 15 miles away from our Brackenridge facility, 20 minutes. What that allows us to do, we've leveraged a rail length for inventory movement. We end up with the flexibility to share resources. And when you look at the cost structure, what we discovered was 70% of that was really within our control if we're going to step up and deal with the footprint. And what happened to us here as we got in -- we've always thought about the different options we had. But with the pandemic, we basically had already started by idling the facilities. We moved our cost structure around. You saw evidence then in the third quarter. And we said, you know what, now is the time. We can't project the future that the profitability returns for stainless, so let's reinvest in places that can generate those kind of returns. So you're right. Historically, when I was responsible for the business, I can say it was very difficult to move the product lines around. Over the last couple of years, we've made some key investments, small, improving our melting capability in Latrobe. These investments that we're making in Vandergrift, actually, half of them are really about capability-driven investments that allow the consolidation to occur. 10 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 02, 2020 / 3:00PM, ATI.N - Allegheny Technologies Inc Transformation Announcement Corporate Call So I think that what's changed for us is how we view our cost structure, and the pandemic gave us a great opportunity. We already had the disruption in the business. And we're just going to pull our future forward, accelerate our future forward actually, just -- we knew it was inevitable, but now is the time. Operator The next question is from Stephen Levenson of Big Rock Research LLC. Stephen Levenson I see what you're doing, and I think you've explained well that you're really doing addition by subtraction here on the existing business, but I'm trying to see where the value is going forward beyond that? I just have a question. Bob, you mentioned bright anneal. Will your investments enable you to use the full 60-inch capability of the HRPF as opposed to what you were doing before? Robert S. Wetherbee - Allegheny Technologies Incorporated - President, CEO & Director We'll have some additional with capabilities, but in the nickel and titanium space. So a lot of the specialty materials. There's not as much 60-wide opportunity there that there -- that was part of the Achilles' heel that hurt us in stainless. But if you look at the specialty side, we should have -- a lot of that stuff gets split into multiple width. So we'll get a lot of efficiencies out of the consolidation. So 60-inch wide isn't really as key to the success in those markets. (inaudible) Sorry. I was going to say, when you talk about the value in a AA&S, I think that was also -- you had kind of 2 questions in there I think. When you look at Advanced Alloys & Solutions segment, we definitely have the Specialty Rolled Products business. We have our Precision Rolled Strip business that's doing very well in Asia, continues to see -- actually, the markets have rebounded, as we talked about in our earnings call. And we still see great opportunities there in some very specialized applications. And then our Specialty Alloys and Components business, which is out in the West Coast, primarily dealing with nuclear Navy, dealing with some very unique products in the hafnium, niobium space that we continue to see growth, whether you call it nano technologies or not, it kind of fits into that category of growth. So I think when you think about the aerospace and defense, specialty energy, which is things like land-based gas turbines improving, some of the flue-gas desulfurization processes, some of the clad piping, those kind of applications. And then you add to that consumer electronics and medical. It's a pretty robust growth environment and certainly brings aero-like margins with it. So I think we're positioning the business to focus on where the growth is. And we're spending a lot of less time worrying about where the problems in the business are. So I think from a leadership focus standpoint, and we're going to be really focused on the differentiated sector through that segment. Stephen Levenson Got it. And there's one for Don. On an earlier question, you talked about $100 million of incremental EBITDA compared to 2019, but 2019 was not a real good year for 737 MAX, how would that compare to 2018? Robert S. Wetherbee - Allegheny Technologies Incorporated - President, CEO & Director Yes. So I'll let Don speak to it. This is Bob. But 2018, from a material supply and the production and the supply chain was actually pretty good. I think the supply chain didn't really put the brakes on until late in 2019. The jet engines did it first. And then I think with the MAX, as they got into the reality of the situation, 2020 is probably -- it's not quite the low watermark. Actually, I think on the airframe side, 2021 will be the low watermark for airframe-type applications. But for the most part, 2019 was a pretty good year on the airframe side. 11 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 02, 2020 / 3:00PM, ATI.N - Allegheny Technologies Inc Transformation Announcement Corporate Call Donald P. Newman - Allegheny Technologies Incorporated - SVP of Finance & CFO Right. I don't think there's much more I can add to that. Operator The next question is a follow-up from Phil Gibbs with KeyBanc Capital Markets. Philip Ross Gibbs - KeyBanc Capital Markets Inc., Research Division - Director & Equity Research Analyst All my questions have been answered. Congrats to Kim on the promotion and wish John the best. Robert S. Wetherbee - Allegheny Technologies Incorporated - President, CEO & Director Thanks, Bill. Operator This concludes our question-and-answer session. I would like to turn the conference back over to Scott Minder for any closing remarks. Scott A. Minder - Allegheny Technologies Incorporated - VP of IR & Treasurer Thanks, Kerry, and thank you to all participants for joining us today. That concludes our strategic transformation call. Operator Thank you. The conference has now concluded. Thank you all for attending today's presentation. You may now disconnect your lines. Have a great day. DISCLAIMER Refinitiv reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes. In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized. THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES REFINITIV OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS. 2020, Refinitiv. All Rights Reserved. 13537436-2020-12-03T03:00:50.770 12 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 02, 2020 / 3:00PM, ATI.N - Allegheny Technologies Inc Transformation Announcement Corporate Call
REFINITIV STREETEVENTS EDITED TRANSCRIPT DELL.N - Dell Technologies Inc at UBS Global TMT Conference (Virtual) EVENT DATE/TIME: DECEMBER 07, 2020 / 5:05PM GMT REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS Matt Baker Dell Technologies Inc. - SVP of ISG Strategy & Planning CONFERENCE CALL PARTICIPANTS David Vogt UBS Investment Bank, Research Division - Analyst PRESENTATION David Vogt - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division - Analyst Good afternoon, everyone, and thank you for joining us today at the UBS Global TMT Conference. My name is David Vogt. I'm the enterprise hardware and networking analyst here at UBS. And with me today, I'm excited to have from Dell Technologies, Matt Baker. Matt is the Senior Vice President of Strategy and Planning for Dell EMC. Matt, just a little bit about Matt's background. He leads the development and implementation of an integrated set of businesses and technology strategies for Dell. And prior to joining Dell about 15 years ago, Matt spent about 10 years at Intel in a variety of different roles. And so before we get started, I need to read the obligatory disclaimers this morning and safe harbor language. This discussion may refer to non-GAAP results, including earnings per share, unless otherwise indicated. For a reconciliation to the most directly comparable GAAP measure, please see the slides labeled Supplemental non-GAAP measures in the Performance Review available on the fiscal 2021 Q3 results page on investors.delltechnologies.com. In addition, Dell Technologies statements that relate to the future results and events are forward-looking statements and are based on Dell Technologies' current expectations. Actual results and events in future periods may differ materially from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements because of a number of risks, uncertainties and other factors, including those discussed in Dell Technologies' periodic reports filed with the SEC. Dell Technologies assumes no obligation to update its forward-looking statements at this time. QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS David Vogt - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division - Analyst So with that out of the way, Matt, thank you again for joining us despite the technical challenges we faced this morning. Matt Baker - Dell Technologies Inc. - SVP of ISG Strategy & Planning It's great to be here. And I've enjoyed a number of conversations, small group conversations before this, so it's been great and I'm happy to be here. David Vogt - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division - Analyst Great. And so maybe why don't we just start out just jumping into some of the various sectors within Dell and kind of give us an update, I know you guys just recently reported, but maybe we could just start with Infrastructure Solutions Group. Obviously, the segment has had some challenging and mixed results over the past couple of quarters as the overall market has been soft. And maybe starting with servers, servers have improved from an order perspective sequentially, and there's some expectation from third-party vendors that we're going to see server growth in calendar 2021. Maybe can you kind of just maybe take a step back and talk about how you guys are thinking about server demand next year and identify some of the key drivers that you're looking at that could potentially improve underlying growth in orders next year? 2 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 07, 2020 / 5:05PM, DELL.N - Dell Technologies Inc at UBS Global TMT Conference (Virtual) Matt Baker - Dell Technologies Inc. - SVP of ISG Strategy & Planning Yes. Yes. So thanks. I think that is a good place to start. Clearly, the server market continues to be a little softer than expected, but against the backdrop of a fairly unusual and unprecedented time, we're pleased with our performance. We've got more work to do and more opportunity, and we're excited for what the next year holds. We've been in a bit of an era of discontinuity for the past 3 years in the infrastructure markets overall. In calendar year '18, there was sort of breakout growth of 30% year-over-year. We had a period of digestion last year. And all of us, I think, were anticipating a period of growth this year. But of course, what we've seen with COVID is a diversion of some of those IT investments to other IT investments, primarily in enablement of work-from-home, learn-from-home, where we've seen unprecedented growth in the CSG business. But overall, we've seen, as you said, better versus sequentially, and we've seen some bright spots in terms of our small and medium business customers and mainstream server orders. So non-service provider, I would say, is the way to characterize that. The market forecasters say we're going to still see revenue down 6% overall for this year, but a return to growth of about 3.8% next year. And I think the drivers for that and the opportunity to drive beyond that is, you just have to imagine there's an amount of pent-up demand across the infrastructure markets. The other thing that I would point out is that we regularly do a survey that's centered around company's digital transformation initiatives. And clearly, when customers look to their left and look to their right and see the results of others, what they see is those who have not invested in technology and digital transformation have suffered disproportionately, and those who are leaders have really weathered the storm a lot better. And we believe that, that's going to motivate people to invest even more than they may have in the past. There's a funny cartoon that went around early on in the tech press with a big wrecking ball with COVID-19 on it and a boardroom saying, hey, this digital transformation stuff can wait. I think this year proves that it can't wait and that we really have to invest in technology, and that's the future of business. And so we see that as a catalyst for growth going forward and a tailwind coming out of what has been a headwind for many industries from the impact of the pandemic. So we feel like we're really well positioned to capture that growth in the recovery. Our product line is fully powered up, as we like to say, both in the server and storage space and across the board as customers make more investments in their hybrid cloud initiatives, in their digital initiatives overall and their data-centric businesses that drive those digital business processes, things like machine learning, deep learning, et cetera. David Vogt - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division - Analyst Right. No, that makes a ton of sense. I mean, when you think about sort of the 50,000-foot level that you just laid out and some of the demand drivers, when you think about the acceleration or maybe the pull forward in demand and digitalization this year, and you touched on some of it in your last response, how are you thinking or how is the firm thinking about what that might look like next year in terms of potentially maybe being a little bit of a headwind for demand, whether it's in servers or some other businesses? I mean, is there a way to think about when most or a very large swath of customer demand for digitalization efforts have been sort of absorbed by the market or is it sort of a day-to-day, week-to-week, month-to-month sort of analysis that you guys are going through? Matt Baker - Dell Technologies Inc. - SVP of ISG Strategy & Planning Well, I think it stretched sort of that market intelligence muscle that we have to get out in front of, every forecast the minute it's written is wrong, right? And so gathering as many signals as we can is really important. But we feel pretty good. There tends to be a good correlation between GDP and IT spend. And the average, I think, is around 5.5% for next year, depending on which firm you're looking at. So there's an opportunity, absolutely, to capitalize this. 3 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 07, 2020 / 5:05PM, DELL.N - Dell Technologies Inc at UBS Global TMT Conference (Virtual) I think if you look holistically, IT budgets were predicted to be down a bit this year with most of it going towards data center. And instead, what you saw was a significant amount of investment in end user. I think we're going to see some degree of normalization going into next year, which should provide a tailwind in the server, storage and infrastructure businesses overall as companies invest in the core of digital transformation, not just end user enablement, but real business impacting digital transformation. And you see these things around us all over the place, right? You see as we come back to normal in retail, the investment in sort of instantaneous, real-time placement of ads as folks walk around the store with their loyalty apps installed. There's all sorts of examples of digital transformation occurring around us. And again, we see that as only accelerating. So we see next year as an opportunity where the growth we were anticipating happening this year is going to happen next year. The question is, how do we accelerate that? And the sequential Q2 to Q3 is a hopeful sign that people are, in fact, switching back and moving more towards investments that power core digital transformation. David Vogt - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division - Analyst Great. No, that's helpful. And you mentioned, you just touched on briefly on storage, sort of the other large component of ISG. We've done some survey work recently that would suggest that maybe some customer expectation or the channel's expectation for storage over the next 3 months and maybe a little bit longer might be a little bit more sluggish than we had originally anticipated. And I know you guys talked about it on the last call, but you guys obviously expected it to return to growth in calendar '22, much like servers. Are the drivers similar from the storage perspective as you see it or as the company sees it from a server perspective or is there anything unique about maybe '21 versus '22 that you'd want to point out? Matt Baker - Dell Technologies Inc. - SVP of ISG Strategy & Planning Well, I think that, I'm not sure it's more unique. The question is that, were certain investments forestalled further, right? So are people sweating their capacity a little bit further? It would be great if I had a magic 8 ball that showed me what the fuel gauge looked like in terms of capacity both for performance and real capacity on their storage arrays. I have to imagine that people are suffering from some degree of pent-up demand. And therefore, that approximately 5% growth for next year looks to be reasonable. Also, obviously, anyone who listened to the call, there's a lot of emphasis and questions regarding our midrange storage products, which we're super proud about that we launched just recently. And we see that as an opportunity to take share and outgrow the market. Our goal is not to just grow at market. Our goal is to take share and outperform the market, and we believe we're poised to do that. Midrange performance hasn't been where we wanted it over the past couple of years, but we believe we have a really differentiated product in market sort of engineered and architected from the ground up for the technologies that are coming online like storage class memory and quite innovative architecture that allows us to do some interesting things in terms of running applications on the array. We also took a new approach that will allow us to accelerate innovation and deliver more releases to that platform given that it's based on a modern container architecture that allows us to really get new innovative features out into the field faster. So we're quite confident about our position, both that the market will recover, but also that our ability to win design wins against our competitors. I would point out that 15% of PowerStore customers today are net new customers to Dell. So those are design wins and takeouts that I think are a good sign. And given how many questions there have been about PowerStore, one sign that puts a lot of sparkle in our eye is that this has been the fastest ramp of a storage product we've ever had. So while there may be a little bit of FUD out there in the market, we are really, really confident about our position in storage and our ability to take share going forward, especially in the midrange, which is the largest "segment" in the market, and it's the fastest growing. 4 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 07, 2020 / 5:05PM, DELL.N - Dell Technologies Inc at UBS Global TMT Conference (Virtual) David Vogt - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division - Analyst Right. No, that's great. And maybe can you just expand a little bit on PowerStore for a second. Obviously, it's critical to your storage strategy going forward. What, maybe, I don't know, maybe this is a more qualitative discussion, but what made it sort of unique that you're starting to see relatively strong order growth versus sort of the weakness that you saw in the midrange? Is it just the technological capabilities and how it was engineered or is it filling a gap or a need or a niche in the market that hasn't been sort of met by the existing technological platforms in the marketplace? Matt Baker - Dell Technologies Inc. - SVP of ISG Strategy & Planning Well, we think that, quite honestly, that these new modern technologies that are coming out require a modern architecture. And so there are a number of things about the PowerStore platform that are unique in the market. From a performance standpoint, we really felt that with the sort of performance on the horizon of storage media that we really needed to create a fully symmetric active-active platform. So what does that mean in plain language? It means that competing architectures out there have send out some equipment. And to be highly available, you have 2 units of activity. In many architectures, that second unit of activity sits there dormant. And we don't believe that, that's a good place to be given the sheer performance available from modern flash-based storage systems. So we wanted to build a differentiated architecture from a performance standpoint. We wanted to create something that allowed customers to do something that they've never really been able to do, which is run bespoke applications on array designed for these really data-centric applications that are increasingly what drive digital innovation. We're just pleased with where it is. It's 7x faster than our previous storage arrays. So I think there's just a competitive capability that the new PowerStore brings that allow us to get new design wins against our competitors. And those competitors are sweating architectures that are a bit legacy. So we just feel strongly that we've created a technological advantage. And of course, we remain the leader in the segment and with that have the ability to drive momentum and really win in the market. David Vogt - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division - Analyst Great. No, that's helpful. And then maybe just kind of tying it back to your as a service offering. I know, obviously, revenue has been growing relatively quickly. I think it's, what, roughly $6 billion, as you guys defined it from a recurring perspective last quarter, up low teens. How does as a service tie into sort of the Dell storage and server model and kind of how you think about it going forward? Matt Baker - Dell Technologies Inc. - SVP of ISG Strategy & Planning Yes. I mean increasingly, customers look to other experiences where they're buying on an OpEx basis and finding that particularly in the current situation, cash preservation is sometimes a wise thing, right? So that's just one sort of driver at the base, but I think it's more of moving towards a selling motion long term that is more digitally native than today's sort of transactional nature of selling, right, one design win at a time, an array at a time. The ability to sort of consume on a more on-demand basis just gives them an ability to more smoothly predict and pay for the capabilities that they want. And so a lot of what we're doing, we have been doing these as a service consumption-based models for a long, long time, for a decade in terms of our data center utility models, et cetera, but it's really more about the experience that we're developing than just having an as a service financial arrangement. And part of that was on display at Dell Technologies World where we highlighted our Cloud Console that is going live this coming year, which really changes the way that our customers interact with us and we believe will add velocity to the selling process. And so that natively digital customer experience is just as important as the overall financial arrangement. And that's really where we see the differentiation coming from the past models that we have had for quite some time. And as it relates to storage, the first as a service offering actually is a storage as a service offering, which is one that is very popular with our customers and that we will modernize through those new processes. But down the road, we see the opportunity to really consume end-to-end infrastructure as a service from Dell, leveraging a hybrid cloud stack. That is the sort of future of where customers or how customers want to buy. And as buying 5 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 07, 2020 / 5:05PM, DELL.N - Dell Technologies Inc at UBS Global TMT Conference (Virtual) is more and more influenced by a broader set of people in the business, giving them access to that on-demand consumption, say, a line of business developer, that just adds velocity to their consumption of our products. David Vogt - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division - Analyst Great. That's a great point. And does having -- from a competitive standpoint, when you talk to potential customers that are interested in this as a service or consumption or OpEx-centric offering, does having a captive finance subsidiary like Dell Financial Services help win business? How does that play in the discussions that you have with potential as a service customers? Is it critical? Matt Baker - Dell Technologies Inc. - SVP of ISG Strategy & Planning Well, that's really -- yes. It's a really good point because what ends up happening, and I think sort of the difference between how you've seen Dell approach this versus some of our competitors is that because of DFS, that has been a competitive weapon of ours that we've deployed for years. That's why we've had a big book of business around these various models. So one, it's a strategic asset because we are used to and have a cadre of professionals that man the DFS ship that help us understand how to operate these models and operate them most profitably and how to, frankly, as assets come in and go out, handling that capacity and frankly, sweating those assets and monetizing those assets after they come off customer site. That's a muscle that we have. So it really feels like we have the capabilities and the know-how to execute on this in the most profitable fashion, but it also just gives us a set of, I should say, options to deploy to our customers. The customer may come in saying, hey, I heard about this Apex stuff, tell me about it, and then they might leave having decided that, no, I'd rather go with a lease structure. And Dell can offer that whole continuum of capabilities to a customer. So we believe that ability to meet the customer where they want to be from unit-by-unit consumption, say, gigabit by gigabit or CPU cycle by CPU cycle or by container or virtual machine, they want that, but they also want other options. And having DFS enables us to have those conversations and build a solution that meets our customers where they are today and gets them where they want to be down the road. David Vogt - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division - Analyst Great. And I know, obviously, Apex, I think it was only recently announced at Dell Technology World, if I'm not mistaken. So does that require, obviously, that selling motion, does that from an education perspective, how does that work with, obviously, targeted customers? How receptive are they? How long is the -- I know obviously, generically, you can't say how long a particular sales cycle is, but what does that motion look like and the education process with customers that maybe historically maybe were just lease purchases of Dell equipment? And how do you migrate them towards this more as a service Apex-driven business model? Matt Baker - Dell Technologies Inc. - SVP of ISG Strategy & Planning Yes. Well, it's interesting you asked that because I'm not sure it's customer education because anyone who's been using, for example, Salesforce.com is used to this model, right, understands as a service consumption. And as a service was really invented, if you will, by software providers who wanted to shift to a different model. And so Salesforce.com, NetSuite, everyone's used to acquiring solutions this way. And to be sure, what we're offering is solutions as a service. So it's a fully finished offering, not just, say, an array as a service. It's a storage as a service, and it's focused on not the individual product, but okay, what do you need? How many IOPS do you need? How much storage? And then we'll put together a capability for you. So I think they're used to it. Obviously, there'll be a little bit of a pivot within our own sales teams. And the sales cycle, I shouldn't say cycle because it's not really a cycle. It's sort of an unending set of opportunities where you, in essence, have a design win upfront and then you have a set of people like customer success and site reliability engineers that continue to drive consumption after that initial design win. So there's a little bit of a difference in the selling 6 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 07, 2020 / 5:05PM, DELL.N - Dell Technologies Inc at UBS Global TMT Conference (Virtual) motion, but I'm not sure customers are unfamiliar with it. I think they just have to ask themselves, is this something I need given the position I'm in, right? And I think we're going to see customers deploying a mix of both because they want to have the flexibility for unknown spikes in demand, and they may want to purchase sort of the run rate. There's all sorts of different ways that customers can take advantage of it, and I think that they're smart enough to understand which one fits where they want it to be. David Vogt - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division - Analyst Understood. So it sounds like it's going to be a hybrid sort of solution for customers, right? It's not as if one size will fit all, but there'll be a mix of whether it's traditional storage-based products or as a service, depending on sort of the need at that particular moment or that particular customer? Matt Baker - Dell Technologies Inc. - SVP of ISG Strategy & Planning Yes. Yes. I think that's right. And that's why I think that sort of what percentage of the market is going to move to this, we've sort of settled on a, it could be up to 30% by 2024. Gartner says something very similar to that. So it's not as if there's going to be this light switch. And moreover, I think by offering customers choice, they're going to really, I use the term different horses for different courses, right? They have different needs. And these economic models, when matched up with those needs, I think, is what helps unlock a degree of value for them and gives them optionality that they might not have had in the past. So yes, I think you're right. Especially amongst the larger, sophisticated customers who are increasingly looking at, hey, what's best to match up for this particular project or deployment and make the decision based on the needs of that deployment than anything else. David Vogt - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division - Analyst Got it. Okay. I think that's helpful. Maybe we can just shift gears a little bit and talk about PCs and CSG. So obviously, demand has been incredibly strong just generically speaking, whether it's work-from-home, work-from-anywhere, educational demand. And something that we've been debating as a team and we've had conversations with clients about is the old adage that you did most of your work on your office PC and home PCs for the most part were episodically used. So there's been sort of a de-emphasis on the traditional PC over the last, call it, 5 to 10 years. Just maybe thematically, I know you guys probably are starting to have conversations like this internally. How are you thinking about sort of a longer term, without getting into specific numbers, but longer-term demand profile for, say, the traditional PC business, whether it's on the commercial side and/or the consumer side? Matt Baker - Dell Technologies Inc. - SVP of ISG Strategy & Planning Yes. I think that's a really good question. And sort of it's one that you sort of have to handicap sort of the behavioral impact of the situation that we're in for the long term, right? That notion of one PC in the home used, I like your term, episodically, was what caught some people flatfooted, right? If that's the case, then how does my child or my 3 children go to school? How do I work? How do I do this, that? The interesting thing that I saw Salesforce.com had done, they do an annual survey around the holiday buying season. And it was highlighted that the fastest-growing platform on which people were doing online shopping was the PC growing at something like 68 points. Phones, which is the biggest segment, phones was flattish. And then tablets, the thing that was supposed to have killed the PC was down double digits, right? So people are turning to the PC because it's a flexible platform on which they can perform a myriad of tasks from working through a spreadsheet to watching a Netflix movie. So we see this episode as sort of, I would say, an episode that informs how people interact with technology for quite some time to 7 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 07, 2020 / 5:05PM, DELL.N - Dell Technologies Inc at UBS Global TMT Conference (Virtual) come. In other words, one PC per household is no longer sufficient. It's sort of a PC per person. And I think that's going to have an impact on other devices and the growth of other... David Vogt - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division - Analyst And when you mentioned sort of behavioral, it feels like in the early days, whether it was March, April, May, June, it was just a scramble, right, by individuals to get a PC, whether it's for a student at home or for their own improved work setup. That initial rush seems to have passed us. When you think about the prospect for longer-term duration hybrid work, hybrid school, how do you think that permeates through the personal behavior purchasing decision? So now that we're coming up through January, again, basically almost a full year into this, are you starting to see anything in the data or any of the research that you look at that would suggest that it's a slow grind of demand going forward versus this massive surge that we saw earlier in the year? Matt Baker - Dell Technologies Inc. - SVP of ISG Strategy & Planning Hey, I got dropped. So I don't know where you lost me. David Vogt - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division - Analyst No. I was just saying, we saw a huge surge in demand, so this behavioral change and this behavioral spike earlier in the year, COVID-related. Now that we're almost a year, we're hopefully closing in on better times. Has behavior changed from, let's call it, the spring into the summer where now to your point about one PC at home is not going to be sufficient, but people are actually now, you're starting to see it maybe in some of the data, to your point, about where online shopping has been trending towards that the consumers then recognize that they need more devices because hybrid could be longer, work-from-home could be longer, and you see more of a steady state demand versus these peaks and valleys that are more seasonally driven? Matt Baker - Dell Technologies Inc. - SVP of ISG Strategy & Planning Yes. David Vogt - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division - Analyst That's kind of the working hypothesis. Matt Baker - Dell Technologies Inc. - SVP of ISG Strategy & Planning I think behavior has changed. And the question is, how permanent has that changed? I would say it's likely to be deeper and longer-lasting that people recognize that having that PC -- it's interesting, there's still data that would suggest we still have 10 million children in the U.S. that need a laptop, 10 million in Japan and 40-plus million in Europe. I think people are going to continue to invest in this because who knows what's going to happen in the future, plus they recognize that having that device is really key to sort of weathering any type of disruption that we might have from a pandemic to some sort of natural disaster. So I do think that this is going to leave a mark, and that's going to lead to sort of a broader market. And in addition, we still have a number of units out there in the installed base that are 4 years old or older. And that's about 700 million of our installed base or the industry's installed base that really needs to be refreshed. So I think we're going to see this impact last a bit longer than we may have predicted. And it's not that everyone, all of a sudden, got a laptop and now they're done and come back in 3 years and refresh. I think this is a bit more of a longer, drawn-out dynamic that we're seeing, we are going through. 8 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 07, 2020 / 5:05PM, DELL.N - Dell Technologies Inc at UBS Global TMT Conference (Virtual) David Vogt - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division - Analyst Right. That's kind of at least the data that we've been seeing coming out of whether it's Asia or some of the studies that we've done, that seems like calendar '21 and likely calendar '22 should relatively be better than originally anticipated from a demand perspective. So I think the data that we've seen would sort of echo your comments. And not to belabor the point on PCs, maybe this is a little bit of a nuanced, small question, but do peripherals matter in this environment? And what I mean by that is, so obviously, we get e-mails all the time internally and I hear from other corporates, how do we make your work-from-home, work-from-anywhere setup better. And obviously, peripherals are a key part of that, whether it's incremental monitors, printing, supplies, wireless keyboard, whatever the case may be. I mean, can you kind of touch on that? Is that a critical component of the CSG business going forward? Matt Baker - Dell Technologies Inc. - SVP of ISG Strategy & Planning I think that, for example, our display business has always been an important component. And this situation, I think, really underscored how important the broader peripheral ecosystem is. It also, interestingly, showed us some glimpses of new opportunities that aren't just CSG, but are ISG in terms of our solutions like -- I'm blanking out, sorry, VeloCloud. VeloCloud, which is something that we commonly thought of as a branch office play. But increasingly, as people are online, and their kids are online, and people are consuming vast amounts of online entertainment, we found the need to prioritize traffic in many people's homes is actually something that is unfolding before our eyes and creating an opportunity for the part of the business that we never thought was going to be relevant in the home. So there is an opportunity around it. And I think you saw early on in the pandemic, there were shortage or not shortages, but I should say there was extreme demand, and it became somewhat difficult to get your hands on a larger monitor because no one was going to sit at home for a month or 2 working on a 13-inch laptop. So all of the peripherals that steps around the PC seem to be increasingly important. I bought 3 new printers, so anecdote of one, 3 printers, 3 docking stations, 1 new PC. It was really a lot of activity around those peripherals. And that, of course, is another nice tailwind when you have a business like we do around displays and our docking stations, et cetera. David Vogt - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division - Analyst Great. So in the interest of time, obviously, we've gotten a lot of questions from clients on VMware. I'm assuming, be sensitive to that, there's really not much that you can say than what's been said sort of previously on prior calls. So I don't think it makes sense to touch on that. But I think what would help investors is when you think about from your perspective sort of new technologies, upcoming launches, kind of how you are thinking about what the next several years look like from your seat within Dell to help give investors a better sense for, this is not just a 4-quarter will PCs and storage and servers recover story, but what are we looking at over the horizon that gets you the most excited and gets you sort of out of bed in the morning? Matt Baker - Dell Technologies Inc. - SVP of ISG Strategy & Planning Yes. Well, that's really a great question. And I won't touch really on VMware, but just to say that we've created a very strong relationship between the 2 companies. And the innovation beat rate that we're on is really something that I'm really proud of. And regardless of what happens, that's going to continue. In terms of, though, going forward, what's most exciting? I mentioned, I think, the survey work that we've done around digital transformation. Every year, we do a digital transformation survey of our customers and customers sort of self-grade themselves between digital laggards and digital leaders. And the one thing that we observed in the data quite squarely was that customers who were digital leaders almost unfazed through this pandemic and in fact, in some cases, accelerating, right, because they already have gone through the work of creating the digital business processes and the customer experiences that they needed to have to operate in this somewhat strange new world. And the laggards were the ones who were disproportionately impacted. 9 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 07, 2020 / 5:05PM, DELL.N - Dell Technologies Inc at UBS Global TMT Conference (Virtual) So I think that's going to leave a lasting legacy of COVID and drive folks to really invest in this term that we call digital transformation. It's a little buzzworthy. But I think under the covers what you find is, it's really about the digitization and automation of new business processes and new customer experiences. And I'm excited about what we're going to see in terms of digital innovation going forward, particularly as we come out the other side of this. With retail, retail took a bit of a hit, but actually, in that same survey from Salesforce.com, it showed how brick-and-mortar was an important node on fulfillment. And people were coming for curbside, and that means having better applications for ordering curbside. A lot of people are going to build preferences for their vendors on people who built their most innovative customer experiences. And beyond that sort of general rubric of digital transformation, I think the world is increasingly moving towards real-time digital interactions, and that can happen at the sort of customer experience level. I mentioned the placement of ads while you're walking through a store previously or just sort of automation of manufacturing environments. In order to do that, that computing needs to be done in real-time on-premises. And so this era of talking about centralization and sort of the disruptive potential of public cloud, which I think has been a little bit overblown, we are going to see significant decentralization of IT infrastructure to deliver these new real-time experiences. So that other word we use, the edge is something that I find fascinating and very exciting. And then another element, and I'll reflect on a few of the things that I've had in these smaller group discussions, a lot of questions about the CPU environment and what does it mean between ARM, AMD, Intel, et cetera. And what I answer with is that, I actually think that, that might be missing the plot a little bit. There's so much innovation going on around the sort of bespoke accelerators, sort of the GPUs, DPUs, FPGAs and the ability to create these increasingly disaggregated and composable architectures that really allow us to fine-tune a system for something like deep learning or AI-like function. So those are some of the things that I'm most excited about. Of course, 5G will further unlock that edge opportunity. And then data, we store more data than anybody on the planet. Data management is an opportunity that we get really excited about because the #1 challenge facing these data scientists that build these real-time experiences based on machine learning, they spend today 80% of their time trying to find the data. And we believe that if we can help them find that data more quickly and drive their productivity, we will have a winning hand as well. So that's another thing that I get really excited about. David Vogt - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division - Analyst Great. No, that's great. I wish we had more time to dig into sort of this edge, data proliferation and 5G opportunity. But I think in the interest of time, we're running a little bit short here. And Matt, I just wanted to thank you again for taking the time and sort of sharing your thoughts and helping us understand the story a little bit better. Matt Baker - Dell Technologies Inc. - SVP of ISG Strategy & Planning Sure. David Vogt - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division - Analyst And obviously, I think Matt and team are still doing a little bit of meetings, so please reach out if you have any questions. And again, Matt, thank you, and have a great holiday season, everyone, and we'll talk soon. Matt Baker - Dell Technologies Inc. - SVP of ISG Strategy & Planning Yes. Thank you for the opportunity. It was a really fun talk. David Vogt - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division - Analyst All right. Great. 10 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 07, 2020 / 5:05PM, DELL.N - Dell Technologies Inc at UBS Global TMT Conference (Virtual) DISCLAIMER Refinitiv reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes. In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized. THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES REFINITIV OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS. 2020, Refinitiv. All Rights Reserved. 13537440-2020-12-07T20:34:46.107 11 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 07, 2020 / 5:05PM, DELL.N - Dell Technologies Inc at UBS Global TMT Conference (Virtual)
REFINITIV STREETEVENTS EDITED TRANSCRIPT DELL.N - Dell Technologies Inc at Raymond James Technology Investors Conference (Virtual) EVENT DATE/TIME: DECEMBER 08, 2020 / 8:20PM GMT REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS Yvonne McGill Dell Technologies Inc. - CFO, SVP of Infrastructure Solutions Group and SVP of Global Financial Planning & Analysis CONFERENCE CALL PARTICIPANTS Simon Matthew Leopold Raymond James & Associates, Inc., Research Division - Research Analyst PRESENTATION Simon Matthew Leopold - Raymond James & Associates, Inc., Research Division - Research Analyst Great. Well, folks, thanks for joining us. This is Simon Leopold, the infrastructure analyst here at Raymond James. We've got a fireside chat coming up with Dell Technologies. I'm pleased to welcome Yvonne McGill, SVP and Corporate Controller of the Infrastructure Solutions Group; along with her colleagues, Rob Williams, who runs the IR; and his colleague, Alfonso Chavez. I've been entrusted to read the nondisclosures. So before we get into our discussion, let me just make sure everybody is aware that this discussion may refer to non-GAAP results, including earnings per share, unless otherwise indicated. For a reconciliation to the most directly comparable GAAP measure, please consult the slide labeled Supplemental Non-GAAP Measures and the performance review available on the fiscal 2021 Q3 Results page on investors.delltechnologies.com. Dell Technologies' statements that relate to future results and events are forward-looking statements and are based on Dell Technologies' current expectations. Actual results and events in future periods may differ materially from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements because of a number of risks, uncertainties and other factors, including those discussed in Dell Technologies' periodic reports filed with the SEC. Dell Technologies assumes no obligation to update its forward-looking statements. So I got through that. So Yvonne, thanks for joining us. QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS Simon Matthew Leopold - Raymond James & Associates, Inc., Research Division - Research Analyst Let's get into some of the Q&A. I've prepared some questions I wanted to go through. But I think given that you're positioned within an individual business unit, I thought it'd be helpful for our audience if you could maybe tell us a bit about your background and your responsibilities, just to set the context of what's in bounds. Yvonne McGill - Dell Technologies Inc. - CFO, SVP of Infrastructure Solutions Group and SVP of Global Financial Planning & Analysis Thanks, Simon, and I really do appreciate the opportunity to speak with you today. So let me start a little bit about me. I've been at Dell Technologies for 23 years and serving in various finance leadership roles. Most of my time has been spent in business unit roles. I've been the CFO for Infrastructure Solutions Group for the past few years. And in that role, I'm responsible for driving and delivering against the ISG strategic objectives and financial commitments. Starting at the beginning of this fiscal year, I took on the responsibilities around a Corporate Controller, and now I also have responsibility for our global accounting organization, our tax organization, treasury, as well as investor relations, from a Dell Technologies standpoint. I work closely with Jeff Clarke, our Vice Chairman and COO; as well as Tom Sweet, our CFO, on pan-Dell Technologies growth strategy initiatives, like as a service or cloud, in addition to the normal cadence of running a very large public company. 2 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 08, 2020 / 8:20PM, DELL.N - Dell Technologies Inc at Raymond James Technology Investors Conference (Virtual) Simon Matthew Leopold - Raymond James & Associates, Inc., Research Division - Research Analyst And maybe your responsibility in terms of business unit. Dell has the major reporting segments: ISG, CSG as well as the ownership of VMware. Can you tell us a little bit about the composition of the ISG unit? Yvonne McGill - Dell Technologies Inc. - CFO, SVP of Infrastructure Solutions Group and SVP of Global Financial Planning & Analysis Sure. I guess I'll start with telling you about ISG. From a trailing 12-month standpoint, it's about a $33 billion business. We have leadership positions in almost every category that we compete. ISG is comprised of 2 primary areas: server and networking business and then our storage business. And those businesses are relatively the same size. Servers, it's about $17 billion on a trailing 12-month standpoint. We have the largest server -- we are the largest server by market share in x86 servers, both on a revenue and unit standpoint. We have a really broad portfolio of x86 products, targeting enterprises, hybrid cloud environments, high-value servers and for AI and ML workloads and edge computing. Storage is, like I said, about the same size but $16 billion on a trailing 12-month standpoint. We have a broad portfolio there with many different solutions, so focusing on primary storage, unstructured storage, converged HCI, data protection, et cetera. Our primary storage area, we've got a number of offerings, PowerMax in the high end. PowerStore is one of our midrange offerings. We also have Unity XT in the midrange and PowerVault down at the entry level. From a converged HCI standpoint, we focus a lot on our VxRail solution. And then from an unstructured or NAS standpoint, we've got PowerScale, Isilon, ECS, et cetera. And then in data protection, we have a PowerProtect. I'd be remiss if I didn't hit on a lot of our #1 position, so #1 in external storage with 27% market share, #1 in storage software with 11% market share, #1 in all flash, #1 in converged, #1 in hyperconverged, et cetera. So basically we think we have a fantastic business in ISG with a lot of embedded IP that advance us in the marketplace. Simon Matthew Leopold - Raymond James & Associates, Inc., Research Division - Research Analyst Great. And so I want to reflect on sort of the path to kind of think about where we are. So fiscal '19, the business grew dramatically, up 19%. Fiscal '21, you were down 7%. You just reported your third quarter of fiscal '21. And obviously, we know this has been a bizarre year with the pandemic. Could you walk us through some of the moving pieces of what led to the decline in fiscal '20? And to what degree are we you sort of facing tough comps and suffering from the pandemic? Yvonne McGill - Dell Technologies Inc. - CFO, SVP of Infrastructure Solutions Group and SVP of Global Financial Planning & Analysis I think it has -- you said it was a bizarre year. This is a bizarre year. I hope it's one that we don't repeat. But we really don't see, if you will, any structural shifts happening. We believe it's -- the changes in the environment, the differences in the growth rates are more driven by the macro environment that we've seen this year. It's been filled with uncertainty, and that's been contributing to weakness in infrastructure spending. To provide maybe a little more context, we had a huge on-prem build that you referred to in FY '19, calendar '18. And we digested that, our customers digested that in the following year. And we expected this year, this FY '21 or calendar '20 to be a return-to-growth year. FY '21, certainly, has been softer than we expected. And as we talked about on the earnings call, the server market continues to be softer than expected. Although our team executed well within servers and networking, and we only showed 2% decline. Certainly, we want to show growth, but the 2% decline, we feel, is a strong performance in the marketplace and a sequential improvement over the prior quarter. 3 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 08, 2020 / 8:20PM, DELL.N - Dell Technologies Inc at Raymond James Technology Investors Conference (Virtual) When you are seeing in calendar '20, what we think we're seeing is our customer is primarily focused on navigating the pandemic and really making targeted investments across their budgets and portfolios. In other words, I think we think the pandemic pushed IT budgets to other areas to mitigate the impact, thus seeing limited upgrades happening. Companies respond to the pandemic by really pushing their budgets towards 3 areas: business continuity, work from home and really strategic digital transformational activities. 2020 has simply been unprecedented or bizarre, like you called it before. Nobody could have predicted we'd be in the midst of this global pandemic. And so although it's been uncertain at times and a challenging year, one thing is really clear to us and that we feel we've really been able to prove this year is in regards to our incredible resiliency. We were a different company than we were 4 years ago before we did the EMC acquisition, and our differentiated model allows us to really lean into areas of strength during times like this. I like to think of different areas of resiliency of evidence points, right? We've got our -- this diverse portfolio. Although maybe ISG spending was down, we've really been able to excel from a -- from CSG from a client standpoint. Our global supply chain, wow, it's -- what a great year, right, mitigating really twin challenges: global trade tensions and global pandemic. Our diverse set of customers, we see across different segments, industries in 180 countries across the globe, so really that span has differentiated us. We have a wonderful sales organization. Our good market capabilities are top-notch in the industry, and we have direct relationships with our customers, coupled with a really strong channel relationship or channel environment, too. The agility with which we have served our customers with flexible consumption solutions that we've had in place for a number of years through DFS has been a wonderful differentiator and as well as the fact that we now have deferred revenue balance of $28.7 billion and recurring revenue of $6 billion, which is actually helping to provide a lot of revenue stability. So we have a history of navigating through challenging environments. This is certainly one of the best evidentiary points we've had. This year is a great example, and we really feel like this is highlighting our strong operational heritage. Simon Matthew Leopold - Raymond James & Associates, Inc., Research Division - Research Analyst So with kind of that as the backdrop and we think about as we head into your next fiscal year and we head into calendar '21, granted maybe we don't know the precise timing of a vaccine, I think everybody has a sense things are heading towards improvement. And so what I'm wondering about is how we should think about the growth in your business given that it seems logical to expect some catch-up spend to maybe outperform, yet I think the outlook offered by most is GDP-like growth. Why should we have faster growth than the overall macro? Why should there be catch-up to make up for the activities that did not get done during calendar '20? Yvonne McGill - Dell Technologies Inc. - CFO, SVP of Infrastructure Solutions Group and SVP of Global Financial Planning & Analysis Well, that's a -- it's a great question, Simon, and I think that we do expect a very strong upcoming year. We think we're really well positioned for calendar year 2021, but the environment really remains pretty dynamic. We believe there's going to be a return to growth in ISG, for example. But as we mentioned a couple of weeks ago on the Q3 call, we're optimistic and feel aligned with IDC and their industry analyst call for the next year. We look at GDP expectations and IT spend, ex telco, IDC -- both IDC and Gartner see about 4% to 5% growth in 2021. So we're looking at calendar 2021 where IDC expects mainstream server revenue to be, I don't know, around 4% and external storage to be about 5% growth and midrange up almost 8%. We do expect that as the market responds to COVID recovery, companies will begin to shift their IT budgets back to investments in the data center, and that leaves us really optimistic about the opportunities for next year. I think we're encouraged by the areas of strength we saw in Q2 that we saw continue into Q3 with improvement in small and medium business customers. I think that's a great sign of that really return in the economy. We saw strong double-digit Q3 orders growth in government, education and in our consumer direct space, for example. 4 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 08, 2020 / 8:20PM, DELL.N - Dell Technologies Inc at Raymond James Technology Investors Conference (Virtual) I think we saw transactional velocity improve month over month as we went through calendar -- fiscal Q3 and saw medium business and CSB orders increase double digits year-over-year, so again, another great sign. From a server and storage perspective, we continue to see improvement in mainstream servers with PowerEdge orders growing sequentially. There's server CPUs coming out next year and processors and platform upgrades. They usually spark demand, right, and refresh and replacement, so again another sign of opportunity for us. Storage demand has been mixed. We've had really high points with the high end in PowerMax, in HCI and our VxRail where we saw orders growing double digits in Q3. And we've seen doubling revenue orders in PowerStore, although certainly starting from a very small base since we just launched the product at the beginning of May. So as we enter calendar '21, we know digital transformation acceleration is accelerating really broadly, and there's clearly pent-up demand. But you couple that with the pandemic recovery, the increased performance from new server platforms, and it makes return to growth in ISG reasonable to believe. Simon Matthew Leopold - Raymond James & Associates, Inc., Research Division - Research Analyst Great. I want to dig in a little bit on the storage part of the business now, in that, as an observer of the company, after EMC was acquired, it was a rocky period of integration. And all of that is normal, but it took longer. And I think we're out the other side. I think we've certainly picked up from our channel checks that the story is more cohesive, the go to market is more cohesive. But the fact is, is you had a period where there was some difficulty, and you lost market share. How do you see the trajectory time line to retake market share in storage? And what do you think contributes to that? Yvonne McGill - Dell Technologies Inc. - CFO, SVP of Infrastructure Solutions Group and SVP of Global Financial Planning & Analysis Well, I think I'd start -- I think you're spot-on. I'm glad to hear that there's an acknowledgment that there's been a change, right? So I think one of the ways we started right away really post-EMC acquisition was listening to our customers, listening to our sales teams, and they were all speaking very loud and clear. We needed to simplify our portfolio. Our portfolio become too complex with too many overlapping offerings, and we needed to take really long-term actions to address it. It's certainly not a quick fix to change over and refresh a portfolio. So since then, we've really rationalized our -- all of our offerings, and we've simplified our storage portfolio with end focus on our customer storage needs. We've modernized the product lineup and launched -- or successfully launched our Power brand, right? So we've powered up across the portfolio. We think that the portfolio is better than ever, and we are, again, well positioned going into '21. But we're optimistic about '21, but we do recognize it's been a challenging environment in '20. I think the -- I've mentioned a bunch of it already, right? But the main challenge has really been the soft storage demand environment, and we believe that was driven by more of the macro pandemic dynamics versus anything really industry-driven or systemic. I discussed earlier IT budgets shifting to business continuity and really work-from-home remote capabilities. IDC again expects the external storage market to be down 7% in 2020 but expects that rebound in 2021 to almost a 5% growth. And so that's something we're certainly looking positively on. we're the leader in storage revenue with 27% market share, which is almost 3x our nearest competitor. So long-term trends remained intact, and we're in a data era. Customers will need more external storage, and we expect data proliferation to accelerate post COVID-19. This current crisis certainly underscores the importance of a digital transformation for all of us, and we're optimistic that we will see this recovery in the next calendar year and remain focused on extending our leading position and growing our storage business. 5 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 08, 2020 / 8:20PM, DELL.N - Dell Technologies Inc at Raymond James Technology Investors Conference (Virtual) Simon Matthew Leopold - Raymond James & Associates, Inc., Research Division - Research Analyst Now I want to get a better understanding of how the product cycle, the PowerStore, which is the new midrange platform for Dell, how this is playing into the overall outlook for 2021. And in the spirit of full disclosure, when we talk to your competitors, they've been more active than usual in trash talk, which is I guess pretty standard for this game. But I guess we have to acknowledge we have a pandemic and a product cycle that's probably a bit late. But maybe if you could share with us some of the metrics and your thoughts on how this product is an enabler. Yvonne McGill - Dell Technologies Inc. - CFO, SVP of Infrastructure Solutions Group and SVP of Global Financial Planning & Analysis Sure. PowerStore is certainly an important catalyst for us to change our trajectory in storage and in midrange in particular, but let me start by giving a little bit of context. Midrange is the largest piece of the storage market. Based on IDC's estimates, 50% of the external storage market is in that midrange price band. Midrange isn't a product for us. It's a -- and for the industry, it's really a band between $25,000 and $250,000. we have a number of products that play in the space, whether it's the low end of PowerStore, Unity XT -- I'm sorry, PowerStore, Unity XT and the low end of PowerMax that fills into this upper bands of the midrange. I really do appreciate that our competitors are speaking about our product because that means there's something to it, right, if they continue to talk about, not only our PowerStore offering, but they will speak about PowerMax also. As of calendar quarter 2, we had about 24% market share in midrange, and we recognize how important midrange is. That's one of the places where I think we had been slow to launch our new products, as we've acknowledged, right? So this PowerStore offering, we feel, is late to market. And we recognize how important it is. So PowerStore is gaining traction. It doubled orders quarter-over-quarter in the -- in our third fiscal quarter, albeit we're still very early in the ramp and acknowledging that we launched the product on May 5, so didn't have much of a base to work off of there. But it's the first modern array in the marketplace. And one of the exciting pieces that we've been looking at is how fast is it ramping in relation to other groundbreaking architectures that we've introduced in the marketplace like XtremeIO, which was all flash; and VxRail, which is -- was our premier HCI offering. So PowerStore is ramping faster than those 2 products, and that gives us confidence towards continued success here. One of the other really interesting things that really excites me, actually, is that more than 15% of our PowerStore customers have been net new storage buyers to Dell Technologies. So you can wonder what they were buying before, but we're excited that they've come to Dell Technologies. Our internal teams certainly are helping our customers ramp their proof of concepts. It's been certainly been challenging in this environment to get everything done when customers aren't in their labs necessarily. But we're making sure that, that new architecture is being evaluated in the marketplace, and it's trending in the right direction. And I finally say that we expect it to ramp through the rest of the year, this fiscal year and through next fiscal year also. And at that point, I think we'll be at a good impactful trajectory. Simon Matthew Leopold - Raymond James & Associates, Inc., Research Division - Research Analyst Great. I want to pivot to some longer-term trends, but I want to address a question that was e-mailed to me from an investor regarding calendar '21 and expenses. I think the sort of premise here is that in the next year, we're going to see a resumption of travel and entertainment expenses as we get back to normal. There's some thoughts that DRAM pricing may increase, at least in the second half of the year. How are you factoring in some of these higher costs into your overall expectations towards profitability in calendar '21? Yvonne McGill - Dell Technologies Inc. - CFO, SVP of Infrastructure Solutions Group and SVP of Global Financial Planning & Analysis Great question, Simon, and it's certainly an area that we're focused on. You mentioned we've had -- and we've talked about it. We made some prudent decisions early during the COVID crisis, the pandemic, to reduce our spending in certain areas: travel, a very obvious area, but also in 6 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 08, 2020 / 8:20PM, DELL.N - Dell Technologies Inc at Raymond James Technology Investors Conference (Virtual) relation to suspending our 401(k) match in the United States. We suspended promotions and hiring and merit cycles. And in addition to that, we've seen reductions in health care expenses and other areas, right? And so as we look forward, that certainly has provided a benefit to our operating margin results in this fiscal year. As we look forward to next year, we expect to reintroduce some of those things. We expect to add back the 401(k) match. We want to pay our team members appropriately to the market. We expect some of that health care to come back in. We expect some travel to come back in, too. But in addition to that, we've already talked about, we expect a rebound in ISG market industry opportunity, right? So I expect to have more growth come back into the portfolio as well as continued growth in our CSG space. And so I think, overall, we'll balance that out. We want to make sure that we have a clear path. We're going through our annual planning process right now, but a clear path towards focusing on continuing investment in our R&D areas so that we can continue that innovation and focus in our go-to-market areas but making sure that we're balancing out the reintroduction of costs and pressure with other prudent automation, AI, et cetera, technology within our portfolio. Simon Matthew Leopold - Raymond James & Associates, Inc., Research Division - Research Analyst Great. So I want to pivot to maybe a longer-term secular trend, and this is not specific to Dell but affects all IT infrastructure. It's public cloud adoption. So sort of this concept that IT infrastructure is a melting iceberg and ultimately all workloads migrate to the public cloud, blah, blah, blah. I get it. How are you thinking about the particular trend of public cloud adoption, basically your customers migrating away from their own data centers? Where do you see that secular trend? And how do you think about that affecting your business? Yvonne McGill - Dell Technologies Inc. - CFO, SVP of Infrastructure Solutions Group and SVP of Global Financial Planning & Analysis Well, I think moving to the cloud is really good for Dell. Customers who've moved to the public cloud, which is where they generally start first, quickly find out that cloud is an essential part of their IT strategy. And then I think they quickly find out that cloud is an operating model and that cloud is actually many clouds. Very few companies have just one cloud. In fact, they want more and more clouds. IDC recently published that 92% of enterprises already have both public and private cloud, and 88% are working with more than one cloud provider. Other industry research from a wide range of firms shows customers' workloads are expected to reside in a hybrid cloud, 40%, 50%, private; 30%, 40% public; and 20% to 30% in traditional. So it's a hybrid cloud environment. And we view cloud as an operating model: moderate consumption, delivery and support, working to solve disparate tools, SLAs, operations, providing simplified management and consistent automations. So that's what we believe we are uniquely doing at Dell Technologies, and we continue to see evidence of investment in technology for hybrid operating model. As I think from our perspective, we're seeing an acceleration of the digital transformation. In October, we released our 2020 Digital Transformation Index, where we've been tracking digital transformation patterns of more than 4,000 enterprises since 2016. Our 2020 index actually revealed that 80% of organizations globally have fast tracked digital transformation programs with the majority of investments going towards edge, distributed work and modern consumption, cybersecurity, 5G infrastructure, digital experiences and data management. And together, these trends are taking us to the future that's highly distributed. Distributed workforce that we've all experienced, distributed learning, distributed health care, all of this is enabled by distributed technology infrastructure: computing, analytics and real-time outcomes at the edge. All technology trends that align very well, all of these to our cloud strategy, to this multi-cloud world and the capabilities we continue to build on. Simon Matthew Leopold - Raymond James & Associates, Inc., Research Division - Research Analyst So that sort of leads nicely into kind of my next question in that cloud economics don't work for everything. And so I'm also a big believer in this concept of multi-cloud. So what does that mean for your customer? Your customer basically is looking to Dell as a partner to be the neutral arbitrator 7 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 08, 2020 / 8:20PM, DELL.N - Dell Technologies Inc at Raymond James Technology Investors Conference (Virtual) when they're choosing which public cloud to use and how to use them. Help us understand what you're actually selling and how you're monetizing this multi- or hybrid cloud environment. Yvonne McGill - Dell Technologies Inc. - CFO, SVP of Infrastructure Solutions Group and SVP of Global Financial Planning & Analysis Sure. I mean if you look at the most defining characteristics of what cloud is, I mean, it's infrastructure to run workloads. It's delivery of resources and services. It's scalability, and it's elasticity. And it's a massive simplification of IT for our customers. So if you think of that as the most basic definition of cloud. Then hybrid cloud or private cloud data center, it can deliver that simplicity and convenience. So now customers are embracing hybrid cloud strategy. They want to avoid lock-in. They want to have access to their specific service needs, access to their data, have a secure environment and really have that performance and specifically referring to really low latency. We're committed to bring these benefits in the hybrid cloud operating model to wherever our customers' workloads reside. So our Dell Technologies cloud allows customers to operate on-prem and off-prem environments seamlessly from one control operations hub. And we are uniquely positioned with that industry-best hybrid cloud solution that's really ready -- already ready to span both public and private clouds. You think Dell EMC is #1 in traditional IT, and we're also #1 in private cloud infrastructure. VMware is #1 in cloud management and a leader in the container orchestration. We have 4,200 cloud service providers and partners. We have the most diverse portfolio of solutions and delivered as a service already. And we have our DT, our Dell Technologies Cloud Console, a self-service experience to manage that cloud journey. Customers have responded incredibly well and really are adopting that hybrid cloud strategy. Performance in HCI is evidence of this, as is our VxRail product, paired with VMware Cloud Foundation software. And we see that as the core to our cloud offer. And as I mentioned earlier, cloud is now expanding to the edge to enable real-time compute and analytics, and this is one of the fastest-growing opportunities we see. According to IDC, the edge computing market will reach $251 billion by 2024 with a compounded annual growth rate of 12.5% over the next 5 years, pretty amazing. We are super excited about the edge given our expansive footprint and the cloud strategy, and we're starting to see momentum build. Simon Matthew Leopold - Raymond James & Associates, Inc., Research Division - Research Analyst Great. I want to ask you one question that's a little bit out of scope. I want to touch on the CSG product group. That's the PCs, laptops, desktops. Last quarter was outstanding. 2020 has been a good year. Everybody needed a new laptop. Me, too. So I guess I've been struggling with the outlook. Because I'm aware that IDC is predicting 1% growth in the next year where the discussions I've had with investors all argue that purchases have been pulled in, who needs to rebuy their laptop. Can you help me understand the disconnect between the idea that sales have been pulled into 2020 and therefore out of 2021 versus this forecast that this business can continue to grow? Yvonne McGill - Dell Technologies Inc. - CFO, SVP of Infrastructure Solutions Group and SVP of Global Financial Planning & Analysis Sure. I mean this year has proven that the PC is an essential device in forming our work-from-homes, school-from-home, stay-at-home economy. As you mentioned, Q3, we are so proud of the performance of our CSG business. We had record shipments, record revenue, record profitability. And we do expect to see continued strength in client demand and expect it to continue, at least through the first half of next year. So you're right. IDC did point to the 1-ish percent growth. I think it will be interesting to see how that plays out next year. Factors that are driving the strong demand, home usage is shifting to at least a 1:1 person-to-PC ratio. I know we have a little bit higher ratio than that in our household, but I do work at Dell Technologies, so I had something to do with it. But having a PC or 2 in the household historically had been okay. 8 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 08, 2020 / 8:20PM, DELL.N - Dell Technologies Inc at Raymond James Technology Investors Conference (Virtual) But this is giving us a really broad usage pattern that we expect to continue post-COVID. This hybrid remote world, we think, is here to stay, and we expect that strength to continue for really the indefinite future. So if we use Dell as an example, we are expecting a significant portion, up to 60-ish percentage, maybe more, of our employees to continue to remote -- work in a remote or hybrid fashion, going forward, even after we are able to return to office. That aged installed base continues to need to be modernized for the work-from-home, learn-from-home environment. Industry's installed base of, I don't know, about 1.7 billion units, and of those, 700 million of those are at least 4 years old and older, which is just a really exciting refresh opportunity, we believe. The public sector has been roughly 50-50 desktop-notebook. And certainly, we saw a quick movement this year to a more notebook-heavy mix and that larger notebook mix equals a faster replacement cycle. Notebooks are replaced about 1.5 years faster than a desktop, so we see that as opportunity. And commercial transactional demand continues to improve. Large companies are also investing to keep systems current for demands, users to do things on Zoom, on Teams and make sure that you can have all the cybersecurity, et cetera, on your system to keep your data environment and companies secure. So IDC's forecast PC units to be up almost 2% in the calendar year 2021 to 300 million units. So that's a lot of opportunity there, and we feel really good about our continued success in the CSG portfolio. Simon Matthew Leopold - Raymond James & Associates, Inc., Research Division - Research Analyst Great. Thanks for that one. I want to get back to kind of the big business trends, and one of the themes that we hear about are alternative consumption models are moving to as a service. And so from a stock perspective, we get it. That leads to higher multiples. But I guess what I want to understand is, for Dell what's different about your as-a-service offering? And how are you taking this into the marketplace? Yvonne McGill - Dell Technologies Inc. - CFO, SVP of Infrastructure Solutions Group and SVP of Global Financial Planning & Analysis Sure. Well, I mean let me start with highlighting that, for a really long time, quite a long time, Dell customers have been able to enjoy flexible consumption solutions across our portfolio. We give them the capability to select solutions they need and payment method they desire, whether it's paying upfront or financing over time. We just announced a project, project APEX, in our Dell Technologies World, and that project really goes much further than the offerings we have in place. Project APEX is going to bring forth a forward-looking vision for our as-a-service capabilities and will really simplify how customers access our technology. Project APEX brings together our as-a-service and cloud strategy offerings and go to market under a single unified effort which is going to be wonderful for us. It should accelerate our efforts and align our organization internally also. APEX will deliver new turnkey as a service solutions that will be enabled within our as-a-service vision. It will deliver outcomes that our customers are expecting, and they'll only need to pay for the resources they use. Four key tenets of our as-a-service vision are deliver IT resources on demand, will -- the infrastructure will be managed for you, pay for only what you use; and we'll build it on a foundation of trusted technology or our technology. Our number 1, our first standardized new turnkey solution will be storage as a service, and that will be available in the first half of next year. And there'll be more to follow on to that. So part of our APEX is our Dell Technologies Cloud Console, and that's what we're going to use to deliver this simple, seamless experience for our customers to manage their entire cloud and as-a-service journey. In just a few clicks, the customer will be able to browse the marketplace, answer simple questions on configs, order an as-a-service offering, deploy their workloads, manage their multi-cloud resources, monitor their costs in real time and add cloud services also. 9 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 08, 2020 / 8:20PM, DELL.N - Dell Technologies Inc at Raymond James Technology Investors Conference (Virtual) And there's a significant opportunity for us to expand this existing as-a-service portfolio and footprint and capabilities that we have. IDC predicted that, by 2024, over 75% of infrastructure at the edge will be consumed in as a service. And more than half of that will be in the data center infrastructure. By 2023, Gartner believes that more than 40% of new storage will be delivered as a service. So we expect edge will be a big driver of growth in incremental workloads consumed in as a service. And with project APEX, we believe we are well positioned to support our customers as they grow and they need to consume more and more IT resources as a service. Simon Matthew Leopold - Raymond James & Associates, Inc., Research Division - Research Analyst So we're just about out of time. I want to sneak in one more question, if I might. You paid down quite a bit of your debt, and so it sounds like we're getting in kind of the targeted range. What can you tell us in terms of when you would expect the rating agencies to potentially make a change in the credit quality for debt, yes? Yvonne McGill - Dell Technologies Inc. - CFO, SVP of Infrastructure Solutions Group and SVP of Global Financial Planning & Analysis Simon, thanks for calling out. We do -- we're really proud of the progress we've made on our debt paydown. In Q3 alone, we paid down $4.6 billion of debt. Of which $3.1 billion, we used to pay down core debt. We're now down slightly below that 3x adjusted EBITDA leverage ratio based on our calculations, which was an important milestone. But that leverage ratio, we believe, is only one of the elements that the rating agencies are going to look at in terms of total credit rating. So they're obviously thoughtful about the macro environment. We've talked about a lot of that over the last minutes on this call, the pandemic, et cetera. And there's also the potential VMware spend that they're evaluating. But we're in regular conversations with all 3 agencies, and we continue to share our perspective, our outlook on the industry and on our performance. But we recognize, ultimately, it's the agencies' call on when they might make their determination to upgrade us in our ratings. So as we mentioned in our Q3 earnings, we expect our debt paydown to be at least $2.4 billion of core debt in Q4 which will allow us to keep that commitment that we've been targeting for this year of $5.5 billion paydown. And we're delivering that despite navigating this pandemic, so we feel good about our progress and feel like the -- it's -- we're on the cusp. Simon Matthew Leopold - Raymond James & Associates, Inc., Research Division - Research Analyst Well, great. Well, we covered a lot of ground here in our time. So I want to thank you for joining us. Yvonne, Rob, Alfonso, folks, thanks for joining Dell Technologies in this fireside chat and participating in the Raymond James Virtual Tech Conference. Thanks a lot. Signing off. Yvonne McGill - Dell Technologies Inc. - CFO, SVP of Infrastructure Solutions Group and SVP of Global Financial Planning & Analysis Thank you, Simon. 10 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 08, 2020 / 8:20PM, DELL.N - Dell Technologies Inc at Raymond James Technology Investors Conference (Virtual) DISCLAIMER Refinitiv reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes. In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized. THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES REFINITIV OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS. 2020, Refinitiv. All Rights Reserved. 13537441-2020-12-08T23:14:37.150 11 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 08, 2020 / 8:20PM, DELL.N - Dell Technologies Inc at Raymond James Technology Investors Conference (Virtual)
REFINITIV STREETEVENTS EDITED TRANSCRIPT ENZ.N - Q1 2021 Enzo Biochem Inc Earnings Call EVENT DATE/TIME: DECEMBER 09, 2020 / 9:30PM GMT REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS Barry W. Weiner Enzo Biochem, Inc. - Founder, Treasurer & President David A. Bench Enzo Biochem, Inc. - CFO & Principal Accounting Officer CONFERENCE CALL PARTICIPANTS Kyle Alexander Mikson Cantor Fitzgerald & Co., Research Division - Analyst Paul Nouri Noble Equity Funds - Founder, MD, and Portfolio Manager Thomas O. Evermore Global Advisors, LLC - Assistant Portfolio Manager Jeremy Feffer LifeSci Advisors, LLC - MD PRESENTATION Operator Greetings, and welcome to the Enzo Biochem First Quarter 2021 Earnings Call. (Operator Instructions) As a reminder, this conference is being recorded. It is now my pleasure to introduce your host, Jeremy Feffer, LifeSci Advisors. Please go ahead. Jeremy Feffer - LifeSci Advisors, LLC - MD Thank you, Stacy, and good afternoon. Joining us today from the company are Barry Weiner, Co-Founder and President; and David Bench, Chief Financial Officer. A press release announcing the results and the update was issued this afternoon and is available now on the Enzo website. I will now read the company's safe harbor statement. Except for historical information, the matters discussed in this news release may be considered forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended; and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Such statements include declarations regarding the intent, belief or current expectations of the company and its management, including those related to cash flow, gross margins, revenues and expenses, which are dependent on a number of factors outside of the control of the company, including the markets for the company's products and services, cost of goods and services, other expenses, government regulations, litigation and general business conditions. Please see risk factors in the company's Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended July 31, 2020. Investors are cautioned that any such forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve a number of risks and uncertainties that could materially affect actual results. The company disclaims any obligations to update any forward-looking statement as a result of developments occurring after the date of this conference call. During this conference call, the company may refer to EBITDA, a non-GAAP measure. EBITDA is not and should not be considered an alternative to net income or loss, income or loss from operations or any other measure for determining operating performance. The company has provided a reconciliation of the difference to GAAP on its website, www.enzo.com, and in its press release issued this afternoon. I would now like to turn the call over to Barry Weiner, Co-Founder and President of Enzo Biochem. Barry? Barry W. Weiner - Enzo Biochem, Inc. - Founder, Treasurer & President Thank you, Jeremy. Good afternoon, and thank you for joining us on our quarterly update call today. We issued our first fiscal 2021 financial and operating results after the close of the market today, and I hope you've had a chance to take a look at them. 2 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 09, 2020 / 9:30PM, ENZ.N - Q1 2021 Enzo Biochem Inc Earnings Call As we continue to drive forward in the pursuit of some normalcy in our daily lives, we at Enzo are extremely proud to have been part of the health care response to the COVID-19 pandemic. Despite the continuing challenges that were presented to our business by COVID-19, we delivered an extremely robust first quarter for 2021. The results were across multiple metrics of success. Both our revenue and accession volume increased significantly over the prior quarter, reaching pre-pandemic levels and exceeding our initial estimates by $1.7 million, which we provided earlier. Total revenue was $28.7 million, a 47% increase over the preceding fourth quarter of 2020, demonstrating continued evidence of recovery and the subsequent positive impact from COVID-19 on our business operations. We also saw continued margin improvement, leading to positive EBITDA of more than $1 million and positive earnings of approximately $0.01 per share. Before elaborating further on the quarter, obviously, we hope everyone has remained safe and healthy during these difficult and frustrating times. The health and safety of our employees has always been of extreme importance, and we greatly appreciate their contributions to keep our business running safely. We have been very fortunate that the implemented measures to safeguard our employees have been successful while allowing us to maintain full operations so that we may continue to advance the important work we've been providing to our health care community. Even with the unprecedented challenges we faced this year, we were able to maintain our commitment to our core objectives: first, transforming into an integrated end-to-end diagnostic products and solutions company; second, building and investing in the infrastructure for growth; third, implementing efficiency measures to better bring in line our cost structure with the market needs; and fourth, building out our 4 key platforms and technologies to address enhanced value in the diagnostic sector. These objectives have helped us to further solidify Enzo's position as the comprehensive solutions provider in diagnostic products and services. Despite the unprecedented conditions of the COVID-19 pandemic, we have mobilized our operational resources to address the expanding needs of the market by servicing opportunities in new areas, including point-of-care and direct-to-consumer offerings. While most companies and businesses during this period have remained partially closed, if not fully closed, Enzo employees have not only manned the frontlines but expanded our operational capacity to continuously support the testing needs of the market. We are extremely proud to welcome Dr. Mary Tagliaferri and Dr. Ian Walters, 2 highly respected and experienced industry professionals, to our Board of Directors, which now number 4 independent directors among the 5 on our Board. As executive clinical fellow and former Chief Medical Officer of Nektar, Dr. Tagliaferri brings deep business development, clinical research and development and global regulatory affairs skills to our Board. Dr. Walters is CEO of Portage Biotech, and he has held executive positions at Bristol-Myers Squibb and Millennium Pharmaceuticals. He is responsible for the development of more than 30 drugs, which led to 5 new oncology drug approvals. In addition to his business acumen, he will be instrumental in identifying new ways that Enzo can effectively support companion diagnostics, early drug discovery and liquid biopsy techniques. The addition of these 2 new directors significantly expand the operational and commercial expertise of our company's Board, particularly concerning companion diagnostics and therapeutic opportunities. During the quarter, we worked with our partners to provide COVID-19 testing services focused on our geographical region. This includes multiple universities such as Stony Brook University and Farmingdale State University as well as urgent care facilities, nursing homes and corporations. These were implemented through our School and Institution Testing, we call it our SIT program, which we launched in June. We are working with local government entities, helping them through this pandemic crisis as well. We are focusing on building out these new relationships beyond COVID testing and transitioning them into long-term opportunities utilizing Enzo's full menu of products and services. Our recent GoTestMeNow online portal is our first direct-to-consumer offering that brings quick, convenient COVID testing to individuals overseen by licensed physicians. Currently, we have now over 30 convenient locations in New York, New Jersey and Connecticut. It works as follows: a patient purchases the COVID-19 molecular or serological test directly from the GoTestMeNow website and then goes to an Enzo clinical lab, patient service center or pop-up site for specimen collection. The results are delivered directly to the individual through our online portal. We plan to extend this online offering to sexually transmitted diseases and other types of testing. Furthermore, we are working on launching a home kit to enable self-testing for certain diseases. We also recently announced the commercial launch of a small, portable microplate reader for use with the company's immunoassay products. This affordable device enables Enzo to offer a complete solution to academic, CRO and other industrial customers. It is a compact plate reader that 3 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 09, 2020 / 9:30PM, ENZ.N - Q1 2021 Enzo Biochem Inc Earnings Call features an open design for quick plate loading and USB connection. The personal 96-well format micro reader plate (sic) [microplate reader] and machine can be used for a variety of applications, including ELISA's protein quantification assays, cell-based assays and more. Ultimately, we hope it will provide new opportunities in point-of-care medicine. On the research front, in a recently published booked titled In Situ Molecular Pathology and Co-Expression Analyses, Enzo's loop RNA technology was expanded upon as a highly sensitive approach in the development of human papillomavirus probes. Enzo's loop RNA was compared against the market leader and demonstrated higher sensitivity. We believe this technology may be extended beyond HPV for improved sensitivity with regards to other diagnostic testing. We also have several innovations and product launches, including serological testing in a post-vaccine environment that are in early days of adoption but we think will be a critical element of diagnostic testing in 2021, and we look forward to updating our investors on these initiatives as they come forward. I'd like to turn the call over to David, who will provide a financial update. David A. Bench - Enzo Biochem, Inc. - CFO & Principal Accounting Officer Thanks, Barry. Here's a review of the financials for the first fiscal quarter of 2021. Total revenue of $28.7 million for the first quarter increased 42% and from the $20.2 million generated in the year ago period, reflecting a continuing expansion of operations and revenue, following the slowdown associated with the impact of COVID-19 on the diagnostic testing sector. The consolidated gross margin for the quarter was 42%, up significantly from the 28% in the year ago period. On a sequential basis, first quarter revenue increased 47% over the fourth quarter of 2020 driven largely by COVID-19 testing. On a divisional basis, clinical services revenue increased 66% to $21.2 million from $12.8 million in the first quarter 2020 and more than 55% sequentially. The year-over-year performance was largely driven by volume growth to approximately 300,000 accessions in the period versus approximately 200,000 in last year's first quarter. Of particular note, we saw gross margins increase to 39% from 14% in the first quarter 2020. This is largely attributed to revenue from rapid expansion of our COVID-19 testing products and services as well as ongoing cost savings initiatives. Net revenue per accession grew to more than $69 per accession versus $62 in Q1 2020 on improved testing mix. And the average product order value during the quarter increased 12% year-over-year, reflective of higher-value products such as genomics, ELISA kits and antibodies. Enzo Life Sciences gross margin was 49% compared to 52% a year ago and experienced an increase of 3% from the previous quarter due to improved product mix and the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. We are focused on improving gross margins in the division for the coming quarters aided by an improved mix of products being sold into a more stable marketplace. On the consolidated expense side, research and development expenses decreased 29% to less than $800,000 or 3% of total revenue from $1.1 million or 5% of total revenue in the year ago period. Selling, general and administrative expenses of $10 million or 35% of total revenue decreased substantially from $11 million or 55% of total revenue in the year ago period. GAAP net income was $0.3 million or $0.01 per share versus a loss of $3.3 million or negative $0.07 per share last quarter and a loss of $7.7 million or negative $0.16 per share in the year ago quarter. Adjusted EBITDA in the quarter was a positive $1 million compared to an adjusted EBITDA loss of $5.7 million in the previous year's first quarter. The significant improvement was driven mainly by increased gross margin from testing mix, lower reagent costs, reduced SG&A expenses from efficiencies and reduced intangibles and amortization costs and travel. Cash and cash equivalents totaled $46 million as of October 31, slightly lower than the $48 million at the end of the fiscal year due to increases in accounts receivable, inventory and capital expenditures. Working capital improved to $37 million from $36 million at the start of the fiscal year. As of October 31, 2020, the company had 47.9 million shares outstanding. We remain committed to investing in our key growth areas as we expand our product and platform capabilities as an integrated solution provider of product and services in molecular diagnostics, immunoassays, cytology and immunohistochemistry. We expect this investment to yield significant gross margin improvement in a normalized post-COVID environment. By combining continued revenue growth from our PCR-based testing platform 4 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 09, 2020 / 9:30PM, ENZ.N - Q1 2021 Enzo Biochem Inc Earnings Call and improved margins and operational discipline, we believe Enzo will benefit significantly from its position as a leading, vertically integrated, end-to-end diagnostic company. I'll turn the call back over to Barry for closing remarks. Barry W. Weiner - Enzo Biochem, Inc. - Founder, Treasurer & President Thanks, David. Both revenue and profit margins have increased dramatically, as you can see in the recent months, but perhaps more impressive is the company's transformation. We are one of the few companies to incorporate a biotech entity, a diagnostics division and a CLIA-certified clinical laboratory. Moreover, our integration has yielded advanced technology in products and platforms that are more economical; provide, in most cases, proven heightened sensitivity and compatibility with existing open systems employed throughout the diagnostics industry. What is particularly evident in this most recent quarter has been our flexibility to adapt to existing procedures to safely and effectively meet the demands for testing resulting from the pandemic. The advent of vaccines that hopefully will enable the world to deal with the COVID-19 virus and return to normalcy will not, in most expert opinions, lessen the need for taste testing or safeguards. This will present an opportunity for Enzo, but it will also underscore the vital role of diagnostics and how they will play in the future in terms of satisfying medical needs. Regarding corporate governance, we were able to attract knowledgeable and capable new independent directors to add value and take advantage of our assets and opportunities as we grow Enzo. Our comprehensive end-to-end solution for modern clinical diagnostics and our ongoing developmental programs make us uniquely positioned within the broader molecular diagnostics market both now and in a post-COVID environment. With that, I will turn the call back to the operator, and we're happy to entertain questions. QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS Operator (Operator Instructions) Our first question comes from Kyle Mikson with Cantor Fitzgerald. Kyle Alexander Mikson - Cantor Fitzgerald & Co., Research Division - Analyst Congrats on all this, all these updates here, and the impressive quarter. So net revenue per session increased nicely year-over-year. Just was wondering how successful you are in expanding or kind of cross-selling your core offerings to customers who initially had the COVID test and it would just be great if you can provide any specific examples and how that kind of has been trending over the past couple of months. David A. Bench - Enzo Biochem, Inc. - CFO & Principal Accounting Officer Yes. So we announced an SIT program, our School and Institution Testing program. And that particularly was for COVID but has extended beyond that, with many schools asking us to help them with their health centers, specifically with regards to sexually transmitted diseases but also other things within the health center. Also, with regards to other areas like nursing homes and urgent cares, we're also finding that expansion where they -- we open the door through implementing our COVID program, but then we're almost expand beyond that within all the other testing that we're able to do. So it is a very interesting model for us as we're able to come in with COVID and then get the breadth of services across the platform. 5 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 09, 2020 / 9:30PM, ENZ.N - Q1 2021 Enzo Biochem Inc Earnings Call Barry W. Weiner - Enzo Biochem, Inc. - Founder, Treasurer & President In many respects, the COVID scenario and situation has been a showcase for Enzo to be able to demonstrate its capabilities in terms of providing services that were timely and effective, in most cases, for these providers. As you may be aware, and we're witnessing today with the resurgence of the virus and the increase in testing demands out there, many labs, specifically, some of the largest labs in our country, are now running very extended return periods for their testing. Some labs are now suggesting 3 to 7 days return on a COVID molecular. And as we all know, getting a result in 3 to 7 days doesn't necessarily fit the bill for exacting diagnosis or containing the spread of the disease. We have been able to ensure our turnaround time, for the most part, between 24 and 48 hours, and that's been our goal. I think that has been extremely well received, and it has allowed us to pick up new clientele. And the clientele we have been working with and extending into is being targeted for also moving their testing, their routine testing, their existing testing beyond COVID testing into our services capability. And we believe that will serve us well in the post-COVID environment as we expand both the nature and type of businesses we're servicing as well as the breadth and scope of the testing that we're providing and expand our revenue lines and service provisions in the future period. Kyle Alexander Mikson - Cantor Fitzgerald & Co., Research Division - Analyst Got it. That was perfect. And I wanted to move to the Farmingdale facility. I was wondering if there was an update there. When could the doubling of the facility be completed, I guess, and then just remind us of the annual run rate revenue that you would expect to achieve kind of regarding that facility? David A. Bench - Enzo Biochem, Inc. - CFO & Principal Accounting Officer Right. So we've already expanded our facilities with regards to our COVID capabilities on GenFlex, and we continue to expand that as we move forward. So that doubling of the capacity is being achieved as we speak. We're bringing on new machines, new resources and new capabilities within our molecular diagnostic areas. The full 21 Exec boulevard newbuild that is a 1- to 1.5-year project, and that's going to take some time to get there. But that is really an all-encompassing project for the company from a CapEx perspective as well as an expansion perspective. Barry W. Weiner - Enzo Biochem, Inc. - Founder, Treasurer & President I think the acquisition of our third structure, which we announced, I would say, about a year ago, was -- had tremendous foresight in it, in light of what has taken place with COVID. We have been shifting our physical facilities around to meet the changes of structure of our employees in terms of keeping them safe. The whole COVID period was an extraordinary logistical challenge for us where we had to move out back-office staffing that could work from home, where possible. We had to expand our production floor to bring in new platforms, new instrumentation to meet the accelerated demand and the demand for rapid turnaround timing. We were fraught with issues in terms of bringing in new employees. We have quite an extensive search out for bringing in strategic positions today to help us in our expansion. The new facility, which is under construction, has already been utilized by certain groups that we started to bring back from home work. So that facility has proven invaluable in our ability to meet the demands, to restructure the facilities' production options and capabilities. And we see over the next year, we will, one by one, be reshifting different departments and expanding our production floor to meet even greater demand that we anticipate even in a post-COVID environment when we see the advent of serology tests stepping in to validate immune response based on the vaccine. Kyle Alexander Mikson - Cantor Fitzgerald & Co., Research Division - Analyst Got it. That makes sense. And kind of like similarly, saw the new run rate revenue is $115 million, up from $100 million. So I was wondering if you could kind of talk about the dynamics that drove that increase, like, the delta there. And then as we're thinking about just the full fiscal year, do you expect to reach profitability, I guess, for the full year? I know it's probably tough to kind of see to this, but what should we be thinking about quarter-to-quarter as it relates to operating expenses and maybe gross margin? 6 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 09, 2020 / 9:30PM, ENZ.N - Q1 2021 Enzo Biochem Inc Earnings Call David A. Bench - Enzo Biochem, Inc. - CFO & Principal Accounting Officer Right, so the -- as you know, we're in turbulent times right now, so it's very difficult to provide quarter-by-quarter guidance. But what I could say to you is that we are expecting, over the next few months, continued increases in the COVID testing, even pre everybody getting a vaccine, right? So that in itself should obviously lend to the comfort of our $115 million-plus run rate. With regards to product and services mix, we don't really speak to that yet in any real granularity. But obviously, COVID was a significant impetus to the growth. That being said, as we mentioned, our account growth also helps and has been -- as we open those accounts, we moved them to other things within it. The last thing I need to point out, which I think is very important, is the margin expansion is not just based on COVID. There's also margin expansion as we move the rest of the molecular platform over to our GenFlex platforms. And that's important because, historically, we've seen these very low margins in the lab of 15% to 25%. We expect that margin to grow beyond that. Even in a normalized area, now we're showing 40-plus percent margin in our lab. And so that helps gain that profitability that you're talking about right now within the company. Barry W. Weiner - Enzo Biochem, Inc. - Founder, Treasurer & President Yes. Just to emphasize that point because it is a very important point, the improvement in margin certainly is partially attributable to the COVID testing. But the uniqueness of our corporate structure, having both the product development manufacturing side of our business support the services side of our business, has allowed us to utilize our own equipment, our own manufactured product. And thus, we are able to extend the margin even on the, what I would call, non-COVID testing areas. And we're seeing that within our numbers. Also, not to discount it at all, over the last year, we have gone through an extensive cost containment program, which we spoke to just about a year ago, and we have drawn out of the cost structure close to $10 million, which is what we targeted back then. And we have successfully delivered on that promise. And that is now also being reflected in the numbers. So we have a multiplicity of contributions that are driving the margin improvement and the performance and we hope that will continue on. Kyle Alexander Mikson - Cantor Fitzgerald & Co., Research Division - Analyst Awesome. That was perfect. And just kind of switching gears here, so obviously, the new directors have this like therapeutic kind of focus. And it sounds like you'll be kind of emphasizing companion diagnostics and liquid biopsy going forward, so it sounds compelling, obviously. Can you just discuss that strategy or maybe the plan and, with a little bit more detail, maybe your goals with respect to the companion Dx, so the liquid biopsy, I guess, offering? Barry W. Weiner - Enzo Biochem, Inc. - Founder, Treasurer & President We are looking to extend the capabilities of our company into areas that we think we can make a material contribution and produce products and/or services that will be contributory for higher-margin returns in the diagnostics sector. Obviously, one of the key areas is the extension into liquid biopsies. As we see the area of cancer diagnostics start to evolve, we see the opportunity to extend our technology platforms into the area of drug discovery, in the area of supporting CRO work and new drug development. We are already providing certain services to CROs currently. The new directors are really very focused and knowledgeable in multiple areas, specifically in the area of drug discovery, of drug validation and the utility and need for companion diagnostics with the evolving new biologicals that are coming forward. Enzo has a significant technology portfolio. We've spoken about it in the past. The wealth of our intellectual property stake is not that well comprehended by the average of investor or even the average pharmaceutical company. And we believe we can mine our technology base and apply it in areas of product development, which will give us a significant edge. And we are looking forward to these new directors who have really a very different and, I would say, significant experience base than directors we've historically had to be able not only to guide into that but to make the appropriate introductions and context to allow us to build a presence in the pharmaceutical industry that will drive not only our support work but help us perhaps in our own therapeutic efforts to bring forward opportunities that can create shareholder value. 7 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 09, 2020 / 9:30PM, ENZ.N - Q1 2021 Enzo Biochem Inc Earnings Call Kyle Alexander Mikson - Cantor Fitzgerald & Co., Research Division - Analyst All right. Great. Yes, that sounds really promising. And I just wanted to ask one more question, kind of a big picture question. Recently, we saw that just given the recent increasing number of COVID tests being processed, there's a significant shortage of the supplies needed for STD diagnostic tests, including the reagents. And so I just wondering if you could comment on that and then the potential impact on Enzo. And I guess, ultimately, given that STDs are commonly asymptomatic, do you expect there could be a potential bolus of patients for your tests over the next few quarters or so? Barry W. Weiner - Enzo Biochem, Inc. - Founder, Treasurer & President The answer is yes. I mean the issue of shortages in our industry has been one of the key challenges from the minute the COVID issue was recognized. I don't know if you go back. And the initial shortage that we all faced back in March and April, we couldn't get enough swabs of the specific type that were required for the molecular test. I mean this is an area I have a particular passion on because, every day, to make this facility and this operation work and to be able to provide the services our customers are demanding and begging for in the early periods required daily review and challenges to overcome the supply chain shortages that were coming forward not only to Enzo but to every laboratory in the country as we know it. What is unique about Enzo is that, fortunately, we manufacture most of our own molecular reagents. And that's really what differentiated us in the early part of this pandemic. And today, it is what gives us that edge. That vertical integration is now fulfilling its vision and giving us the economic edge as well as the supply edge. Now that is not to say that we still don't witness supply chain shortages. We are all witnessing it. And these shortages initially were in the swabs. Then it was in the reagents. Recently, in the last month, it's been in the consumables, the plastic tips that go into the machines. What you have to appreciate, there are a limited number of global suppliers, and they are being demanded on by every lab around the world. And so where we can be self-sufficient, and we have been extremely self-sufficient and very creative in our processes to be able to manage, it has been an incredible challenge. And I think the ability that we have shown and the foresight in our own product lines, in our own design and strategy, in putting forth our own platforms, in producing our own reagents, has really -- is really starting to show itself as a strategy that is -- was viable and important and fulfilling its design. But still, going forward, there are daily shortages on every level. And it will be a continuous problem as the demand on testing continues to expand, and it looks like it will continue to expand. Operator Our next question comes from Thomas O. with Evermore Global. Thomas O. - Evermore Global Advisors, LLC - Assistant Portfolio Manager Barry and David, just wanted to say congrats on the quarter. Great job on quickly ramping up on the GenFlex platform to deal with COVID-19. Look, you guys are working on a lot of initiatives concurrently, and it would be helpful if you could just kind of walk us through on how you're thinking about the next phase for Enzo as it relates to priorities post-pandemic. Barry W. Weiner - Enzo Biochem, Inc. - Founder, Treasurer & President It's a very, very good question. We are wishful and hopeful that the vaccine will temper this virus and get us all back to normalcy, obviously. It has allowed Enzo to showcase itself. I think it has provided the environment for Enzo's strengths to become visible, and not only visible on an observation level but visible on a production and product level, to multiple customers around the world. That being said, post-COVID, and we are acutely aware that at a point in time, there will be a shift, a potential shift, in necessity and need in the marketplace. Right now, molecular testing is the gold standard. We have seen the introduction of a number of rapid tests. I think the sensitivity and specificity of those tests has now demonstrated that 8 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 09, 2020 / 9:30PM, ENZ.N - Q1 2021 Enzo Biochem Inc Earnings Call they may serve a purpose but they certainly are not the answer that the molecular test gives in terms of accuracy and immediacy for contagious issues here. That being said, what we are -- what we believe will happen in a post-COVID environment, as the vaccine begins to become more extensively applied, will be the need for testing to validate and verify immunity. That means the serological test will be one that we think will have to be employed by those who are vaccinated to validate whether they have antibody production, the sustainability of that production. I mean you have to remember that the vaccine still is yet unproven in terms of its durability. It's interesting, as recently as this morning, I was reading a scientific study on one of the vaccines which said that they're hopeful it has a 6-month antibody sustainability. They don't have enough time, but they're already seeing it fall off. That means that testing will be predicated and necessary as long as this virus is proliferative. And we believe that our program to address that is comprehensive. We currently are running IgG tests for the antibody, but we think there will be a need for IgM, IgA and another series of more rapid types of test for people to say, "I've been vaccinated. I'm immune." And I think when you look at the numbers that, that might drive the numbers of people that will be vaccinated, I think it will be another leg to the COVID testing story. We also see, and we're very focused, on building our business and capitalizing on the goodwill of the large number of new accounts that we have been able to bring in-house because of COVID testing. And I mean I do know we have taken business from many of the larger labs because of our rapid turnaround time, because of our service levels. I mean it's interesting to see the universities and the school programs that we've put together. At the universities, we have teams of swabbers that are there every day on campus, taking samples from the students. We're not just the processor, we're facilitating the testing capability of these universities. And that has, by word-of-mouth, spread. And we're getting new business because of the quality job that we're doing in our existing institutions that we're servicing to the point that we actually have to be measured in terms of us being able to be able to manage the volumes that are being presented to us. So we see the future as leading not only to COVID testing, but we're now taking specimens from school health services. Obviously, the STD market there is high, and that's one that fits very well with our molecular platform. We had approval for our STD panel pre-COVID, and now we're able to extend that into these higher-level academic institutions. Nursing homes, another interesting model for us. Pre-COVID, we did not do a lot of nursing home business. Post-COVID, we not only feel that we will be able to do ongoing COVID testing but we will hopefully be able to get the other, what I would call, legacy or routine business, which is quite significant from these nursing home clientele because, again, we provide a level of service which is special in our industry. So I think there are programs in place. We're looking at new types of tests. We're looking at service provision that I think is unique in the market, and we hope that will extend and grow this business significantly in the next 6 to 12 months. Also just one further comment, it's on the direct-to-consumer initiatives and the point-of-care testing. The direct-to-consumer is just starting now. I mean we're getting interest and activity on our website. People are now taking the direct-to-consumer test to our portal, and the point-of-care test will be very interesting because it will dovetail with that program. So I think there are many initiatives. The technology development cycle is aggressive, but we're addressing it very readily now. Thomas O. - Evermore Global Advisors, LLC - Assistant Portfolio Manager Great. And I just had one more question. You mentioned the launch of this new portable microplate reader. I guess the question is twofold. One, how should we think about the launch in terms of time line to commercialize? And two, is there currently any existing technology out there where your product is looking to effectively displace it? Barry W. Weiner - Enzo Biochem, Inc. - Founder, Treasurer & President The launch is ongoing as we speak right now. This device is a very, very -- it's a very unique and clever device. It actually looks like a 5-inch by 8-inch cell phone-type device. It fits a little plate that you put samples into, and you plug it right into your computer. And it will initially have applicability in an academic setting and in a research setting because it allows scientists or researchers just to plug right into their computer and run their specimens very quickly and efficiently without using equipment that might be shared or have a location difference from what they're doing. It's a 9 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 09, 2020 / 9:30PM, ENZ.N - Q1 2021 Enzo Biochem Inc Earnings Call very, very clever device. The whole purpose of it is to drive our extensive ELISA kit program. I mean we have -- we are a marketer of many kits that are targeting all sorts of developmental interests for researchers and academics. If you look on our catalog on our website, you'll see hundreds of these tests. And this device is to provide us a complete solution for these researchers. And it's a sense to drive the utility of our ELISA offerings. So it has both uniqueness in size and convenience and cost. And at the end of the day, ELISA readers are prolific throughout the industry, but it's almost like a new model of your cellphone that can work with your computer and give you independence and autonomy from your laboratory. So we think it has some legs to it, and we're very excited about it. It's just beginning now. Operator Next question comes from Paul Nouri with Noble Equity. Paul Nouri - Noble Equity Funds - Founder, MD, and Portfolio Manager So the products that you got EUAs for, are you actually selling those into the market? Or are you primarily using those for your own lab? Barry W. Weiner - Enzo Biochem, Inc. - Founder, Treasurer & President Our own lab has been the major customer because of supply chain requirements. We have interest from other entities and institutions for our platforms. But because of the supply chain needs, we have been slow in providing those because the utility is being absorbed by our own lab. And thus, the margins there are quite good for us in doing that. But we're looking forward as we have both U.S. and international interest. And over the next few months or so, we hope that as the supply chain eases, we'll be able to start to ease those products into the market. Paul Nouri - Noble Equity Funds - Founder, MD, and Portfolio Manager Okay. And the press release said that the company was in the process of evaluating business opportunities. I was wondering if you could expand on the areas that you're most interested in or what exactly this means? I mean does it mean more that you're looking to make tuck-in acquisitions in areas of technology that you're looking to expand in or perhaps divestments? And then, I guess, related to that, one of the activist investors brought up that the company had engaged Lazard. And I was wondering if there was any update on that or any information related to that. Barry W. Weiner - Enzo Biochem, Inc. - Founder, Treasurer & President Sure. The statement applies to a variety of different opportunities. Unlike many companies, we have multiple developmental options to exploit. Specifically, we have 4 major platforms that have been under development, each being developed to provide unique capabilities to the market. The GenFlex, which we speak about for our molecular platform, is the most developed of them all. It's being worked. We have multiple platforms running every day in our lab, processing not only COVID but a variety of molecular tests. We have a program in the area of immunohistochemistry, we have one in the area of cytology and we have one in the area of immunoassay development. Our goal is to fully develop each of these 4 platforms into independent value centers. And to do such, we have a limited number of areas on our own that we can fully exploit, particularly in the hectic environment that we're dealing today with COVID. And the statement really applies to dialogue with potential partners, codevelopers of our platforms to establish them as independent value centers. And we believe that the intrinsic value that sits within each of these platforms, when broken apart from the overall totality of Enzo's work, can be brought to light. And that's where we are looking to leverage our assets and to apply them in those areas. In terms of the relationship with Lazard, the COVID environment certainly has created diversion. There's not much to say on that as of this point in time. And -- but we will, if anything develops, certainly report that in the market in a timely fashion. 10 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 09, 2020 / 9:30PM, ENZ.N - Q1 2021 Enzo Biochem Inc Earnings Call Paul Nouri - Noble Equity Funds - Founder, MD, and Portfolio Manager Okay. And then is there any update on any of the lawsuits that you guys have pursued against industry peers? Barry W. Weiner - Enzo Biochem, Inc. - Founder, Treasurer & President Nothing -- I mean everything that -- the current update will be provided in the 10-Q, but there -- these are ongoing issues. As you know, the courts during the COVID issue have been somewhat limited in their execution. So the whole period has been stunted by the COVID environment. Operator I would like to turn the floor over to Barry for closing remarks. Barry W. Weiner - Enzo Biochem, Inc. - Founder, Treasurer & President Well, thank you so much for joining us today. While we are very proud of our revenue growth and profitability achieved this quarter, it is really only one step in transforming Enzo into an integrated end-to-end diagnostic products and solutions company and building and investing in the infrastructure for growth. We look forward to the next quarter or 2 quarters as we drive much of the developments and the opportunities that we've reported on today. We are looking forward to a very exciting period, though challenging period, I have to tell you. The workforce here has been pushed to its limits, and they have actually responded well to the challenges. But this is an ongoing scenario. We have a lot on our plate. I believe we will be able to deliver a lot going forward, and we look forward to reporting to you. Thank you for your time. Operator This concludes today's teleconference. You may disconnect your lines at this time, and thank you for your participation. DISCLAIMER Refinitiv reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes. In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized. THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES REFINITIV OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS. 2020, Refinitiv. All Rights Reserved. 13537446-2020-12-15T16:07:23 11 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 09, 2020 / 9:30PM, ENZ.N - Q1 2021 Enzo Biochem Inc Earnings Call
REFINITIV STREETEVENTS EDITED TRANSCRIPT MUVGn.DE - Muenchener Rueckversicherungs Gesellschaft AG in Muenchen Outlook for 2020 and 2021 Call EVENT DATE/TIME: DECEMBER 01, 2020 / 12:00PM GMT REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS Christian Becker-Hussong Munich Re - Head of IR & Rating Agency Relations Christoph Jurecka Munich Re - CFO CONFERENCE CALL PARTICIPANTS Kamran Hossain RBC Capital Markets - Analyst Andrew Ritchie Autonomous Research LLP - Analyst Jochen Schmitt Metzler Equities - Analyst Vinit Malhotra Mediobanca - Analyst Vikram Gandhi Societe Generale - Analyst Michael Haid Commerzbank - Analyst Thomas Fossard HSBC - Analyst Michael van Wegen BofA Merrill Lynch - Analyst Paris Hadjiantonis Exane BNP Paribas - Analyst Darius Satkauskas Keefe, Bruyette & Woods - Analyst PRESENTATION Operator Good day and welcome to the Munich Re outlook for 2020 and 2021 conference call. Today's conference is being recorded. At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Mr. Becker-Hussong. Please go ahead sir. Christian Becker-Hussong - Munich Re - Head of IR & Rating Agency Relations Thank you. Hello to everyone. Thanks for joining us on this call, on the outlook for 2020 and 2021, including some news flow on COVID-19 this morning. And the procedure is as always straightforward. I will hand it over to Christoph and then we will go right into Q&A. Thank you. Christoph, please. Christoph Jurecka - Munich Re - CFO Good afternoon also from my side and thanks a lot for joining this call. We are aware that this being very much on short notice, so sorry for the inconvenience. But we trust you understand that it was just not possible for us to invite earlier as the Board of Management decided on the financial outlook 2020 and 2021 only this morning. And then it was a legal requirement to publish the release immediately after the decision. So, by the way, this is then also the reason why we released the outlooks today and did not wait for our Investor Day, which is a week from today. Also please be aware the numbers for 2021 are still subject to the approval of Munich Re's Supervisory Board. Now as usual, I will not go through the release in detail. It's anyway pretty much detailed. But what I would like to do is to give some introductory comments before we then have ample time for Q&A. To start with I think the release today is good news. Why is that? There are three reasons basically in my view. First of all, despite the ongoing COVID development, the impact -- the financial impact, which is significant, is clearly manageable for us. So, first good news. 2 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 01, 2020 / 12:00PM, MUVGn.DE - Muenchener Rueckversicherungs Gesellschaft AG in Muenchen Outlook for 2020 and 2021 Call Second, we have further strengthened our COVID-19 provisions, including explicitly our big market share which we have in contingency. And third, we will be back on our pre-corona earnings trajectory all the way to next year, despite the expectation that we'll have COVID-19 claims also next year. So, how did we manage to come up with the outlook now? Well, we intensively looked into basically everything over the last couple weeks, gained additional insights. And then also very thoroughly assessed the various COVID-19 loss scenarios by line of business. And also took into account the still considerable uncertainty due to the still unclear development of the pandemic. We also analyzed the financial impact beyond claims. So, just as an example, premiums or costs on investment income at ERGO, and now we are sufficiently confident to present a forward-looking indication for COVID-19 financial impact, at least as much as it concerns this year or next year. But then -- sorry, for that always disclaimer. All numbers published today are, of course, best estimates and the best knowledge we currently have. But the actual future outcome, of course, might deviate significantly from that. And as mentioned earlier also, we can only reserve for claims which incurred already or reserving for claims not yet incurred. It's just not possible due to our accounting standards, so this is unchanged. But -- and that's something I'd also personally like to underline is that we have and will set the provisions for COVID-19 consistently prudently and in accordance with the established conservative reserving (inaudible) we have elsewhere and which we have for many years in place already. So, that is completely consistent. In the slide deck we just published you can then find in some detail the underlying assumptions behind the results we have been setting up for the various lines of business and also the approach how we came up with these best estimates. Looking at the result, I think the profit of EUR1.2 billion, this is good news, as I said, given the large amount of COVID-19 losses this year. I'd like to highlight that in this number there is a large loss budget included for the remainder of the year of EUR225 million. Deviations from the actual claims from that budget, of course, will lead to either higher or lower profit. So, the EUR1.2 billion might then be higher or lower depending on actual claims until year end. On an underlying basis our business is fully on track. And without COVID-19 I think it's very obvious that we would have been able to hit our original target for 2020. Now going forward, thanks to our strong balance sheet, we are in a very good position to exploit market opportunities also going forward. In 2021, despite the COVID-19 losses as mentioned, we plan to meet a profit target of EUR2.8 billion. In the reinsurance segment this reflects the ongoing profitable growth and price increases which compensate for the expected COVID-19 impact of EUR550 million in reinsurance also in 2021. ERGO expects EUR500 million next year's net income, and this includes already EUR100 million impact COVID-19 for next year. So, you can see that without COVID-19 ERGO would've achieved a target profitability level of the ERGO strategy program which now comes to an end. Now please just let me advertise again that we'll present our business strategy and our midterm financial targets at our Investor Day next Tuesday. With that, I'm very happy to now take your questions. Thank you. Christian Becker-Hussong - Munich Re - Head of IR & Rating Agency Relations If I just may add please, as always a maximum of two questions per person, please. Thank you and go ahead, please. 3 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 01, 2020 / 12:00PM, MUVGn.DE - Muenchener Rueckversicherungs Gesellschaft AG in Muenchen Outlook for 2020 and 2021 Call QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS Operator Kamran Hossain, RBC. Kamran Hossain - RBC Capital Markets - Analyst A couple of questions. One is on, I guess, the combined ratio for next year. You were aiming for 97% underlying this year. You've said the combined ratio X COVID next year should look like 95%. Is there anything else going on apart from best pricing? So, that's question one. Does that bake and high reserve releases, etc.? And the second part of that question is, assuming that you've got this 95% as a starting point for 2021 with improving 1/1 renewals, should we expect the quantum of improvement in the following year to be similar? The second question is just on, I guess, claims at this stage. I mean, it is a remarkably high level of IBNR that you've got for your COVID-19 claims. How does that compare with your book in a normal year? I know there's no such thing as a normal year, but how does that compare to your book in the first year view? Thank you. Christoph Jurecka - Munich Re - CFO First of all comment ratio. So, you're looking for the miracle; there is none. So, what happened between the 97% and 95% clearly is improving -- improved pricing environment, of course some growth. Maybe a little bit of shift in business mix, a little bit more risk solution business where traditionally margins are a little bit higher. But all in all this is just organic business development in the current environment which is responsible for the improvement from the 97% to the 95% underlying. And then we add again on the 95% COVID claims and that is how we end up with the guidance of 96%. Reserve releases are expected completely in line with what we had in the past as well. So, nothing spectacular to add on that side. Claims IBNR, I mean it is obviously not uncommon that reinsurers have a large amount of IBNR, first of all to cope with uncertainties, but also because reporting sometimes is much more delayed than when you look at binary insurers. So, in that sense, obviously, this is something which is -- we'd be used to anyway. Having said that, the COVID-19 situation is special. Why is that? Because the uncertainties also looking backwards in time continue to be very high with all these card holdings just coming in and then you have some appeals in some markets. And I would say in this area the amount of IBNR is proportional. If you look at it compared to what we have as case reserves, this is quite extraordinary. Also because clearly this is not long tail liability business we are talking about here. Operator Andrew Ritchie, Autonomous. Andrew Ritchie - Autonomous Research LLP - Analyst I just wanted to understand a bit more about the increase in COVID nonlife claims in Q4. I guess I'm not sure how to interpret the paragraph on slide 2 with respect to BI which says, our reserving follows our legal assessment on a case-by-case basis. Meaning that if court decisions -- that paragraph there. 4 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 01, 2020 / 12:00PM, MUVGn.DE - Muenchener Rueckversicherungs Gesellschaft AG in Muenchen Outlook for 2020 and 2021 Call I don't know, does that mean though that you have or have not reflected court decisions that have emerged since the end of Q3, which I guess is predominantly two jurisdictions? Or are you still holding out that your legal opinion is different and that ultimately those court decisions may get reversed? That's why I'm not sure what you mean by that paragraph. If you could clarify that and what happened on BI reserves in Q4 and what the assumption is for 2021. And the second question is a simple one I think -- or maybe not. The technical result guidance for life for 2021 is EUR400 million after EUR200 million of expected COVID, so a EUR600 million kind of underlying run rate, I suppose, which is higher than the EUR550 million which was the original guidance. Is that just natural growth of the business? I'd assumed in 2021 there would still be some low rate effects, particularly in Canada where you have seen some noise from that. But maybe just clarify why that isn't the case. Thanks. Christoph Jurecka - Munich Re - CFO Andrew, thank you for the questions. And often the simple questions are the difficult ones, so I'll start with life. In this case it is simple indeed. So, yes, I mean the EUR400 million guidance excludes the COVID effect of EUR200 million. So, normalizing for that it would be EUR600 million. You're coming from EUR550 million, which was the original guidance this year, and the plus EUR50 million then more or less reflects the growth of our book. As you know, it normally takes anyway some time until the (inaudible) book translates into higher IFRS earnings, and that's what's happening here. So, it's already the growth we had over this year and also more recently and in the more recent past. This translates into higher earnings then going forward. So, nothing really to add. Andrew Ritchie - Autonomous Research LLP - Analyst And there's no more Canadian drag effect on -- I think there was a change in discount rate I think was the effect this year. Christoph Jurecka - Munich Re - CFO Yes, there's always some effects. Given with guidance, of course, we have a fair view on -- we have a very fair view on what potential downsides are and where we might have even upside or potential for outperformance. And this is reflected in here. But, of course, it does not exclude that one or the other assumption we would have to change then over time like interest rates or whatever. And then, again, accounting principles in life are a little bit asymmetric. So it is much simpler in IFRS to show downside than upside, even if economically you are sound or stable. So, this is also what came on one or the other time in the past. But going forward, as I said, this EUr400 million guidance we feel comfortable with and conscious of everything I was just saying. Now your first question, COVID claims nonlife, BI, what does that mean? Obviously all the court rulings we are aware of are fully reflected in what we are having here in the presentation. But if you look back where we are coming from, and that many of these court decisions are not final yet, we just have to be aware that in many places legal interpretations are not final at this point in time, which might result in material upside or downside. And I think that's what's mentioned here. But then again, talking about upside and downside, I think the reserve position, and that's what I was saying in my introduction as well, is being set up in the prudent and conservative way like we always do. Operator Jochen Schmitt, Metzler. 5 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 01, 2020 / 12:00PM, MUVGn.DE - Muenchener Rueckversicherungs Gesellschaft AG in Muenchen Outlook for 2020 and 2021 Call Jochen Schmitt - Metzler Equities - Analyst Thank you, good afternoon. I have one question on the outlook for reinsurance premium income of EUR37 billion in 2021. Would it be reasonable to assume that the sales non-proportional business is likely to increase whether it's in your nonlife reinsurance book in 2021? That's my question Christoph Jurecka - Munich Re - CFO Well, I think my answer would be not necessarily. Because finally that's not the way we see or we look at our business in the first place. So, it's also not the most important planning dimension when we look into how we plan our business. We are rather looking into markets and into segments where we think attractive growth opportunities are. And therefore the dimension is not the most relevant for us. And would we be happy to take on more proportional or nonproportional business? Yes, both. And the mix, how it will be realized pretty much depends on business opportunities which we will find. So, the answer, finally, is it could be, but at this stage it's clearly too early to tell. Operator Vinit Malhotra, Mediabanco. Vinit Malhotra - Mediobanca - Analyst Thank you very much for this opportunity. So, my two questions -- first one is just on the Solvency II. Because now we have two quarters where the COVID losses are coming out a bit worse than what we could have imagined or what was initially thought. And I remember you talked about the aggregator on top kind of buffer or bulk reserve buffer, meaning that no effect is needed on Solvency II. But are you -- is there any update on that thinking? Is it that -- because what it looks like is that Solvency II buffers are then a bit lower because obviously they are being used to provide backup on COVID. Any update on that given that COVID has surprised negatively two quarters? First question. The second question is I noticed also the pickup in ROI in fourth quarter while full year being 3% and nine months was 2.7%. Could you just comment on what's happening there? The gains might have been realized. And also will that hamper more the investment deal in the future? Christoph Jurecka - Munich Re - CFO First of all, Solvency II, you are referring to the discussion we had I think in the Q3 call where the question was, especially for life reinsurance, if we did additionally reserve for Solvency II purposes on top of the existing Solvency II provisions. And my answer back then was that we don't have to because we have a global reserve covering that already sufficiently. Now what's happening at year end is that we are doing our usual reserve review process in both life as well as nonlife. And in that course we review also the assumptions. And technically what happens then is that we adapt assumptions also in our Solvency II provisions, and increase it where needed. But to finance that we can reduce the global reserve, the global on top reserve we're having. So, technically the answer is we increased the bottom up calculated reserves, but we financed that to a large extent by a decrease of the on top reserve. So, I think the high-level answer is, yes, what I said in Q3 is still valid. The existing reserves are high enough, but they will be now a technical rebooking between two buckets happening at Q4. 6 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 01, 2020 / 12:00PM, MUVGn.DE - Muenchener Rueckversicherungs Gesellschaft AG in Muenchen Outlook for 2020 and 2021 Call Vinit Malhotra - Mediobanca - Analyst And also I meant P&C and life, sorry, just to be clear. I didn't mean life only, sorry. Christoph Jurecka - Munich Re - CFO Okay, that was life on the P&C side. Anyway, our IFRS reserves are the same like what we use for Solvency II purposes, so there is no deviation. But also in P&C with a global on top reserve that's unaffected by COVID-19. Yes, our ROI, on the ROI what can I tell you? I think Q4 so far has not been very spectacular. The market environment pretty constructive but not overly. Interest rates continue to be low. So, short-term I think nothing spectacular I could talk about. Long-term obviously low interest rate environment will remain. Our strategy is how to cope with that and how to really manage that environment also going forward is something we will be excessively talking about at our Investor Day next week where then also on the card side our Chief Investment Officer will be holding a presentation covering asset management. I think it will be much better to wait one week and get a more profound answer than only asking the CFO. Operator Vikram Gandhi, Societe Generale. Vikram Gandhi - Societe Generale - Analyst Just one from my side. I'm just trying to think how should we really see the EUR2.8 billion figure next year in context of what the original guidance or the target for FY20 was, which is exactly EUR2.8 billion the pre-COVID world? And next year you kind of expect EUR500 million additional COVID impact pretax, so that's about EUR400 million post-tax and ERGO is about EUR0.5 billion post-tax impact from COVID. So, that's being offset by something. And it appears to me that clearly it cannot just be the organic growth and the better pricing. So, there has to be a bit more explanation. But perhaps I'm wrong. So, all I'm trying to say is does it mean the EUR3.3 billion is the new base for the Group's earnings power? That's my simple question. Thank you. Christoph Jurecka - Munich Re - CFO Okay. I'll try to run you a little bit from 2020 to 2021 and what the main deviations are. Starting in reinsurance, obviously, the constructive market environment is a key driver. We have two main elements here; one is growth and the other is also the margin improvement. And we had already this year quite good renewals with an overall 1.8% price increase which will partly spillover into next year. And then we also expect a constructive environment in the upcoming renewals next year, which is also incorporated into the guidance here. On top of that we have business mix effects, so we expect an even higher growth in our risk solution business, where traditionally margins and structurally margins are better than on, let's call it, core reinsurance business. So, business mix will also help. Even in the core business a slightly higher share of property business will additionally support this development. I think we covered reinsurance life already where we have the COVID effect. But outside of the COVID effect also an attractive earnings growth which is incorporated in the result here. ERGO with the EUR500 million ends up exactly at the number like what we had for 2020 as well. 7 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 01, 2020 / 12:00PM, MUVGn.DE - Muenchener Rueckversicherungs Gesellschaft AG in Muenchen Outlook for 2020 and 2021 Call So, yes, there is EUR100 million COVID impact, but this is more or less only eating up the additional profitability ERGO achieved until today by finalizing the ERGO strategy program now. So, that's not something I think you could really deduct from the 2020 guidance, because there's upside which ERGO would have delivered in 2021 if not COVID-19 -- and COVID-19 would now reduce it again. So, that's this effect. I think reserve releases, everything else is stable. The usual planning assumptions like what we always use, so nothing to report on there. Also on the investment result side, only slightly decreasing result, maybe stable result in a difficult environment. But we don't expect a big downside there. And then we have various other smaller positive effects, fee income business, stuff like that which adds up then finally. And so, if you add up all these components you end up with exactly the numbers I was mentioning before. Now coming back to your question is the EUR3.2 billion the new normal. Well, again, we'll talk about the midterm ambition anyway next week, so there's nothing I have to cover today. But I think the one remark I'm very happy to make already today is that, of course, our target for next year is a stretched ambition, it is culturally for something which is important that we give ambitious targets also into the organization. And that's I think also a way you should look at the EUR2.8 billion, that's quite a stretch in there. Operator Michael Haid, Commerzbank. Michael Haid - Commerzbank - Analyst Two questions on ERGO. First 2021 and 2020. 2021 you had a negative impact of EUR100 million. What assumptions did you take on or expectations? What did you take on motor insurance globally? Presumably many insurance companies have seen frequency benefits, so competition may increase. And so, I just wondered how did you arrive to the minus EUR100 million. And similar for 2020 the minus EUR65 million, where does it really come from? It's investment income and how do frequency benefits play into that? Christoph Jurecka - Munich Re - CFO Well, let's start maybe with 2020 then and then I can also make the transition to 2021. In 2020, also if you look at the slide 3 we have been delivering, it's three major drivers. It's claims, it's premiums and then it's a number of other effects which drove the ERGO impact from COVID-19. On the claims side ERGO is also affected by the famous event cancellation and business interruption topic. But then that's a point you mentioned, ERGO was also benefiting from some frequency benefits on the motor business. And so that I can confirm. Overall claims impact from COVID-19 is still a burden overall. Then on the premium side, many lines of business are affected premium wise in a COVID-19 environment. The most important one we mentioned here is of course the travel insurance. We obviously after Q1 turn over the premium level or drastically reduced as the travel activities overall were much lower than in the year before. Also in international business we have lower premium volume in a number of markets -- Austria, Baltics, Poland. So, that's a little bit across-the-board. Everywhere more or less a little bit but then adding up also being part of the EUR65 million for 2020. And then we have other effects. We have investment effects, things like lower rent, for example, if you have real estate investments, retail mortgages, default, in that area for example. But then also volatility of capital markets to some extent as well of course. And then this is partly compensated by cost-saving measures which ERGO implemented early on during the crisis and whereby dampening the effect. And all in all we end up with this EUR65 million of COVID effect for the year 2020. Now the year 2021, and the obvious question is why is it higher, the EUR100 million in 2021 versus EUR65 million in 2020. Well, first of all, I mean in 2020 the whole thing started after Q1 only more or less. So, in Q1 everything was normal in 2020, which we do not expect for 2021. So, in travel 8 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 01, 2020 / 12:00PM, MUVGn.DE - Muenchener Rueckversicherungs Gesellschaft AG in Muenchen Outlook for 2020 and 2021 Call insurance, for example, the first-quarter 2020 was a normal quarter for travel insurance. The first quarter in 2021 we don't expect anybody to travel really. So, that's a big difference, for example. On top of that we still expect some claims, but a much bigger impact in 2021 will be from the premium side. Where over time lower premiums are also lower new business and some lines of business accumulates so that the effect over time is increasing. And this is true for a number of lines of business. Travel again most importantly, but also then international health business, for example, where we have a very similar impact. And then there are number of other smaller effects which also add up. For example, also the investment result. As you know, ERGO is having significant businesses which are run as joint ventures where ERGO is having less than 50%. India, China, for example, are the ones -- are the smaller ones as well. But India, for example, is also an entity which is highly affected by COVID-19. So, from the Indian business we would also expect lower income next year, which is then also incorporated into the minus EUR100 million we have for -- as the COVID impact for next year. Again, it's a little bit different. Reinsurance where you have three large lines of business adding up to the most -- the large number of the overall effect already. In ERGO it's a little bit more distributed across various lines of business, various markets. But then if you end up one after the other of these comparatively relatively small effects, you still end up with a number which is from a group perspective maybe not that material. But on an ERGO level it counts and makes a difference between EUR500 million and EUR600 million for next year. Operator Thomas Fossard, HSBC. Thomas Fossard - HSBC - Analyst First question would be on the EUR200 million of additional contingency claims you expect in 2021. Could you remind us on which basis or which assumptions you formulated the EUR200 million? And if potentially this is now taking into consideration events which actually could duplicate (inaudible) place if the vaccine is -- or what sort of prudence are you taking into this EUR200 million? And the other question would be related to the claims environment quarter to date. There is still one month to go, but maybe you could maybe qualify how the quarter has been so far. Thank you. Christoph Jurecka - Munich Re - CFO The contingency, yes, we have covers, obviously, which are covering also the period next year. And we even concluded new covers until March in 2020. So, it's not -- I don't think it's a surprise that there's still an exposure. Now how did we come up with the estimate of EUR200 million, and I underline estimate. What we did is more or less that we treaty-by-treaty, contract-by-contract assessed the mutual risk. Also looked into potential risk mitigating measures and came up with a quantification. So, what are risk mitigating measures, for example? Indeed if you are talking about a sports event, if you're of the opinion that it will happen just without spectators in a stadium but with television broadcasting the event, then our assumption obviously is that it will be held that way, like we are seeing in many football leagues anyway already right now. Similarly to large music events, we took certain assumptions what we think what will be possible during the year and so on and so forth. And I remind you that these covers are often structured in a way that not only cancellation but already postponement would trigger certain payments. But then also the way it is, either postponed or canceled. So, the earlier the better from a claims perspective, for example. Therefore it 9 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 01, 2020 / 12:00PM, MUVGn.DE - Muenchener Rueckversicherungs Gesellschaft AG in Muenchen Outlook for 2020 and 2021 Call has to be very individual assessments given the specific risk situation cover by cover. And that's what we more or less did here coming up with this EUR200 million number. So, I mean your question was will there be deviations from that? Yes, for sure, but again this is our best estimate. And then depending on if the vaccine will be a success, will it be available early to a large part of the population or later, obviously the numbers will deviate a little. But again, there again are many factors as well. So, in that sense I think I can only reconfirm that's our best estimate set up in a prudent way like what we always did, but obviously there's a lot of room for deviation from that. Q4 to date -- second question was on the large loss developed in Q4 to date. I mean it's still early and the difficult thing is if you sliced down the quarters into smaller, smaller, smaller pieces, the idea of your budget doesn't make so much sense anymore because you don't have a daily budget because you do not -- just do not expect a hurricane to happen every day. Having said that, so far the quarter has been relatively benign when it comes to large losses outside of COVID-19 and this is also reflected in our outlook for 2020. Operator Michael van Wegen, Bank of America. Michael van Wegen - BofA Merrill Lynch - Analyst Two questions, please. First is basically a follow-up on the previous question about the large losses. When I try to back solve the 2020 106% combined ratio and the 97% underlying and taking into account your COVID guidance, then indeed either October-November have been very benign and I think there's an element of that that you just highlighted. But it also suggests that PYD could be considerably higher than we perhaps have seen in Q4, so in prior years. Can you help me understand a little bit -- well, A, if that's a correct assessment; but, B, what would be driving substantially higher PYD versus other years Q4, which tends to be seasonally a bit higher? And the second question -- it's been very helpful the disclosure you've provided on COVID losses by category for the full year. But can you help a little bit understand what happened in Q4? Because the EUR900 million or so P&C Re COVID losses are the highest quarter year to date. I'm just trying to understand to what degree a second wave is a material contributor to that or which categories from the first wave are very important to that. And why did it take relatively long for that to come through since the start of the pandemic? Thank you. Christoph Jurecka - Munich Re - CFO Yes, Michael, thank you for the questions. So first of all, PYD large losses and so on and so forth. We are generally publishing the development of the large losses always net, so including PYD developments. And this is also what we have been doing in the past. So, already from a methodological point of view it's consistent. And therefore also I wouldn't be -- I'm not sure if I would follow your assumption that in the past PYD has been lower, just based on the fact that we haven't been really speaking about it that much. But what is correct is that we are always talking about net numbers. And indeed you were mentioning two drivers. One is a very benign quarter and the other driver is very good PYD. And as often in life, the answer is somewhere in the middle. So, the quarter has been good but maybe not that exceptionally good as we might have indicated. At the same time also PYD is constructive but also maybe not that out of range compared to what we've seen in the past. And when you add it together then you end up with a quarter which, outside of COVID-19, looks relatively good. So, that's something I can absolutely confirm. 10 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 01, 2020 / 12:00PM, MUVGn.DE - Muenchener Rueckversicherungs Gesellschaft AG in Muenchen Outlook for 2020 and 2021 Call Your question was what happened in Q4 on the COVID side -- or on the reserving side more generally. I think this question relates very nicely also to the PYD question. I mean, November generally is the time of the year where we invest a lot of time and effort into our reserve revenue. And as part of the reserve revenue, of course, PYD for large losses is something we are considering a lot and discussing a lot. But then as part of this reserve review obviously also we had another deep look into our reserve possessions. And among these reserve position obviously the COVID-19 reserve is a very relevant part. So, having said that, we just used the time in November to very thoroughly assess our reserve positions and then came up with something which also I said in my introduction already -- is what we think a really prudent reserve. And then we also took the opportunity to strengthen the reserves maybe again. And so, that's what you can see in the numbers here. Michael van Wegen - BofA Merrill Lynch - Analyst Okay, thank you. And is that related to any particular area within the COVID exposures or just across the board where you saw that potential strengthening of reserves? Christoph Jurecka - Munich Re - CFO Well, I think the prudency level overall is pretty equally distributed across the lines. Operator Paris Hadjiantonis, Exane BNP Paribas. Paris Hadjiantonis - Exane BNP Paribas - Analyst A couple of questions from my side. Firstly, Christoph, thanks for the detail on the split of the COVID losses. But I would be asking again on contingency and specifically on a world I understand to be probably your largest exposure, which is the Olympics. I assume from what you said before that the assumption is that such an event will be taking place but without spectators. Is that the case? And if we get a complete cancellation, I think you've talked about this before, but can you give us an idea of how the level of contingency claims changes for 2021? And then secondly, on the dividends, you don't provide detail today. Let me ask you -- given your discussions or your regular discussions with the regulators, are you at all concerned that (inaudible) might be stricter this year than before? Or is your Solvency II position and your ability to withstand shocks the only thing that matters to them? Thank you. Christoph Jurecka - Munich Re - CFO Yes, so first of all Olympics, well, I think it's public knowledge that we are one of the insurers of the Olympics. But independently of that fact, I cannot comment on individual events, even if it is a big one and a well-known one. I am sorry for that. Dividends, what can I tell you? We were going to decide on dividends anyway in Q1 only. So, I can speculate a little bit around the fact if our regulator is going to be more or less constructive this year after having been very constructive last year. But I've been pretty optimistic. Why should they change their behavior, at least I wouldn't expect that. 11 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 01, 2020 / 12:00PM, MUVGn.DE - Muenchener Rueckversicherungs Gesellschaft AG in Muenchen Outlook for 2020 and 2021 Call From a numbers perspective I think Solvency II was fine anyway. IFRS, the outlook is largely in line with a dividend payout. Local GAAP is a different kind of story anyway, so local GAAP result, as you know, can deviate significantly from IFRS results and did so in the past in both directions. But we are not that dependent on local GAAP result anyway because we have a stock of distributable earnings readily available to be paid out. So, in that sense everything unchanged. So, clear intention to pay out the dividend like we did the last 50 years. It's the core part of our capital management storyline and strategy. And everything else then remains to be seen in Q1, I think. Operator (Operator Instructions). Darius Satkauskas, KBW. Darius Satkauskas - Keefe, Bruyette & Woods - Analyst So, question one, in the few percentage points combined ratio improvement, can you give some color how much you are assuming from better pricing and what are your latest views on the January renewals? Second question, you might not be able to comment on this, but maybe you could give some color. So, Munich Re has a history of being conservative. However, you are guiding to 2 percentage points combined improvement when most of your peers are talking about 1 percentage point. Do you think you are more optimistic about the pricing improvements or our peers are simply building more prudence in their loss specs? Any explanation there? Thank you. Christoph Jurecka - Munich Re - CFO Yes, thank you. Well, I'll start with the future renewals. Obviously I cannot give you any number, that's something we don't do regularly. So, I would rather -- I'm not in a position to either -- to neither tell you what our expectation for 1/1 is nor what we incorporated in our plans. But we do that generally with a certain grain of caution as well. So -- yeah, but nothing as I can comment on that. But I think it's a reasonable assumption we have in here. On the 2%, I mean obviously I cannot comment on what peers are doing. When we are releasing renewal results, I think what we have been telling you all the time is that the price changes or that we're always talking about real margin improvements here. Because we already include business mix effects, we include claims inflation most importantly. So, what we see as a price effect is a real margin improvement. So, the average over the year was 1.8% what we saw as a margin improvement. Therefore if we would not have included 2% as a difference in our combined ratio guidance most probably I would've gotten the question today where has the rest gone? Where did you lose that money? So, therefore, frankly, we thought it was no choice to come up with any other guidance than fully reflecting the better pricing we realized already this year. And that is where the 2% difference is coming from. Operator At this time there are no further questions in the queue. Christian Becker-Hussong - Munich Re - Head of IR & Rating Agency Relations So, I guess we are done for today. We will meet again, although just virtually, next week. Looking very much forward to that. Thanks a lot for joining us today. Stay healthy and speak to you soon. Bye-bye. 12 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 01, 2020 / 12:00PM, MUVGn.DE - Muenchener Rueckversicherungs Gesellschaft AG in Muenchen Outlook for 2020 and 2021 Call Operator Thank you. This concludes today's call. Thank you for your participation, ladies and gentlemen. You may now disconnect. DISCLAIMER Refinitiv reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes. In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized. THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES REFINITIV OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS. 2020, Refinitiv. All Rights Reserved. 13537448-2020-12-02T21:08:08.047 13 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 01, 2020 / 12:00PM, MUVGn.DE - Muenchener Rueckversicherungs Gesellschaft AG in Muenchen Outlook for 2020 and 2021 Call
REFINITIV STREETEVENTS EDITED TRANSCRIPT IBKR.OQ - Interactive Brokers Group Inc at Goldman Sachs Financial Services Conference (Virtual) EVENT DATE/TIME: DECEMBER 08, 2020 / 4:20PM GMT REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS Thomas Pechy Peterffy Interactive Brokers Group, Inc. - Founder & Chairman CONFERENCE CALL PARTICIPANTS William Alfred Nance Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - Research Analyst PRESENTATION William Alfred Nance - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - Research Analyst Okay. So joining us today, we're pleased to have Thomas Peterffy, Chairman of Interactive Brokers. Thomas founded Interactive Brokers in 1977, and it was one of the pioneers of the financial services industry, especially in its automation. Thomas, thanks for joining us again for the conference for the fifth straight year, even in virtual form this year. Before we begin with today's presentation, which will be fireside chat, I wanted to remind the audience that they can send their questions via the webcast. And time permitting, we will take some of the audience questions at the end. QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS William Alfred Nance - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - Research Analyst But Thomas, maybe we can just start off high level on Interactive Brokers' unique position in the industry. So you have the most global reach of all the publicly traded brokerages, the most active client base, the highest return on client assets. And you've massively expanded the customer base this year by, I think, 52% account growth year-over-year as of November. So can you talk about what positioned the company to take advantage of the market environment and the opportunity this year and how you're looking forward to serving this much larger account base over the next 3 to 5 years? Thomas Pechy Peterffy - Interactive Brokers Group, Inc. - Founder & Chairman Well, as you know, Interactive Brokers grew out of our fully automated option market (inaudible) in the early '90s. Timber Hill launched Interactive Brokers with the mission of serving the roughly 6,000 individual floor traders in the -- on the various exchange floors. They needed electronic tools to be able to continue their business as the exchanges were going electronic. According to -- accordingly, the platform we build had to be suitable for professional traders and the execution quality, commission, margin and borrow and sub-borrow rates have to be low enough for them to be able to continue to produce regular daily income. That is still our focus today. But once we build the platform, we saw nothing wrong with making it available to our commerce. Over the years, many floor trader customers, they are gradually replaced by proprietary trading with hedge funds and their employees. But we still maintain the attitude that anything we build should be available for anyone to use if they bother to learn it, and many people enthusiastically do so. Automation, low pricing and tools that enable professionals to invest and trade profitably still remains our primary focus today. 2 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 08, 2020 / 4:20PM, IBKR.OQ - Interactive Brokers Group Inc at Goldman Sachs Financial Services Conference (Virtual) William Alfred Nance - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - Research Analyst Got it. So I think investors devote a lot of attention and time focusing on your competitive position in the U.S. And I think time and time again, you've emphasized the strong international growth in recent years. What do you hear from customers abroad about why they choose IBKR? And how do you differentiate your comp -- yourself from the competition in international markets? Thomas Pechy Peterffy - Interactive Brokers Group, Inc. - Founder & Chairman It's true. We aim to be a global broker. You can come to us from practically any country with any of most currencies and buy any publicly traded product anywhere in the world practically. The brokerage business is not as well-developed in most other places outside of the U.S. as it is here. And we have less competition, especially for financially sophisticated investors and traders. Although for these folks, the financially sophisticated traders, our investors have no -- sorry, our platform has no competition within the United States either. Outside the U.S., people are more open and eager to learn about stocks, options, futures without preconceived ideas of what a brokerage platform should look like. We find that many people in the U.S. are a lot into a mindset of using their obsolete and less capable platform due to sheer inertia and reluctance to learn new things. This is much less of a problem for us outside of the country. People are more willing to learn our way of looking at markets, our way of looking at trading and investing. We don't just give them an online order ticket to fill out, we give them live markets to interact with using our very large tools. William Alfred Nance - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - Research Analyst Got it. And just one more on the international growth. I mean with so much of the growth coming from international, can you just help us understand which geographies do you expect to drive the most growth outside of the U.S. from here? And where you see the biggest opportunities to expand the reach? Thomas Pechy Peterffy - Interactive Brokers Group, Inc. - Founder & Chairman Sure. Well, our growth over the last 12 months has been about 60 -- 36% in America. It's been about 61% in Europe and 63% in Asia, especially rapid growth is coming from Hong Kong, Singapore and Malaysia, Eastern Europe and the Middle East, and Canada and South America. William Alfred Nance - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - Research Analyst Got you. And then just more broadly on the different customer segments. I think for several years, the introducing broker segment was what drove a lot of the growth in accounts, but this year the story has really been about the individual client base and just the rapid influx of new investors into the market during lockdowns and stay-at-home orders. So as the world waits the vaccine and various forms of lockdowns are kind of ongoing throughout the world, do you think this sort of growth can persist in the very near term? And then as the world and the environment normalizes, what do you think the growth profile of the company looks like longer term? Thomas Pechy Peterffy - Interactive Brokers Group, Inc. - Founder & Chairman Yes, so -- yes, individual customers' accounts have grown by 72%, which is especially high over the last 12 months. Much of this is due to many of our tools that are very accessible to individual investors to do their own research and also better advertising that we targeted to this segment. This is my favorite customer segment because 32% of our new customers come to us by recommendation of existing customers. The more of them we get, the more new ones will come. 3 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 08, 2020 / 4:20PM, IBKR.OQ - Interactive Brokers Group Inc at Goldman Sachs Financial Services Conference (Virtual) While the COVID lockdown certainly enticed some customers to open accounts and try their hands at trading, I think that the rapid growth of the individual customer is also due to a more fundamental global trend in the growth of capitalism, private ownership and widely spread appreciation and acceptance of capital markets around the world. I believe this to be a long-term trend, and this growth will continue in the foreseeable future. So while going forward it's unlikely that we will keep -- be able to keep up the 52% growth rate or especially the 72% for individual customers, I think it may -- after the vaccine, it may level off around in the high 20s or around 30% maybe. William Alfred Nance - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - Research Analyst Got it. That makes sense. So maybe digging in a little bit more into what we've seen year to date, it hasn't -- the environment hasn't really just manifested itself in elevated account growth numbers, you've also seen it in the volumes. Activity rates have been 50% to 75% elevated per account. And -- that being said, a lot of the volume has been smaller notional sizes, maybe a little bit less derivatives than you'd run previously. So what is the makeup of the higher volumes and the incoming accounts? How are you about the types of new customers that are attracting -- that you're attracting right now? And kind of how do you assess the quality of these accounts versus, kind of, the legacy customers that you have? Thomas Pechy Peterffy - Interactive Brokers Group, Inc. - Founder & Chairman So I look at it this way. Last 12 months to November, account growth -- overall account growth 52%, client acquisition 61%, commission income 50%. But since about 20% of the client equity growth is due to the appreciation in market prices, we can conclude that new accounts have somewhat less money and tend to trade smaller order sizes than older ones, and that is okay with us. We like the idea of many young people, who do not necessarily have the amounts of money their parents may have, come to us to learn about investing and trading. Eventually, many of these accounts will become much larger. William Alfred Nance - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - Research Analyst Got it. That's a good segue into the next question on just like younger accounts and smaller account sizes. I think people understand that Interactive Brokers is a platform for sophisticated traders, and you aren't always attracting the same sort of client that maybe like Schwab or Fidelity attracts. More recently, however, there's been a lot of focus on the competition for active traders and the success of fintech platforms at attracting large amounts of new investors that are very highly active. So how do you compete or do you compete with these fintech platforms? And is there anything to be learned from the rapid growth that you've seen among younger investors? Thomas Pechy Peterffy - Interactive Brokers Group, Inc. - Founder & Chairman So I need to take this question in 2 parts. Schwab and Fidelity, they have many of our target customers. They are both well stablished, very credible and well-run firms. We compete with them by providing better execution, lower margin rates and easier accessible shortable inventory. It is those few percent of the Schwab and Fidelity customers who care about these kinds of things. That is our target customer. And we got some of them every now and then. It's not easy because people suffer from this disease or inertia. But every now and then we succeed with a few. Robinhood, on the other hand, we do not compete. They are a platform for young novice investors, and we prefer that these people cut their teeth on other platforms. Some of these folks become good traders and investors. And at some point, they realize that they need to upgrade to a more sophisticated platform and then they come to us. We indeed get, on the average, about 8 accounts a day from Robinhood, but I do not recall ever having seen one going in the opposite direction. 4 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 08, 2020 / 4:20PM, IBKR.OQ - Interactive Brokers Group Inc at Goldman Sachs Financial Services Conference (Virtual) William Alfred Nance - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - Research Analyst Understood. So -- I know the rollout of IBKR Lite has had some unintended consequences over the past year as all the competitors rushed to move to 0. And I think after a year, after rollout, the adoption has still been just 1% of the account base, which I think validates the focus that you've always had on execution quality, but do you have any color on what you've learned from running the 2 models side-by-side in terms of the quality or the value of the order routing at IBKR Pro? Thomas Pechy Peterffy - Interactive Brokers Group, Inc. - Founder & Chairman So the numbers are slightly larger than that. Today, 4.8% of our customers are Lite accounts. And in the last quarter, they accounted for 2.7% of our trades. So clearly, it indicates that customers who trade more often want to have a professional quality execution and are happy to pay a small commission. On the other hand, less frequently trading customers like Lite, which is exactly what we expected and we're happy with this outcome. William Alfred Nance - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - Research Analyst Got it. So maybe keeping with this idea of highly active versus less active clients, much of the online brokerage industry relies on generating net interest income from client cash balances in order to generate revenues because the commissions are low and their accounts trade so infrequently that -- and they use less margin that trading revenues just don't fully pay the bills. And you've managed to create this cash machine that still derives the majority of the revenues from active traders and enjoys a little bit strong profitability. So my question here is, will IBKR ever be the right platform for buy-and-hold oriented investors to invest? And do you need to broaden the funnel in order to get to that 80 million accounts over the next 20 years that you spoke on, on the most recent earnings call? Thomas Pechy Peterffy - Interactive Brokers Group, Inc. - Founder & Chairman Yes, definitely. So it is true that buy-and-hold customers are less concerned about execution quality. If they do not use leverage, they do not care about margin. But since Schwab, Fidelity and E*TRADE have done away with stock commissions and option commissions are not enough to make up for the lost revenue, they are now focusing on various fees, and more significant one of these is a custody fee. Interactive Brokers does not charge a custody fee. So 10% or 30% -- or 10 or 30 basis points of custody fee may not be noticeable in a year when markets are up 10% to 20%. But in slower years, customers will refocus on broker costs, and at that time, the buy-and-hold customer will become more attracted to Interactive Brokers free custody offering. Our recent purchase of 70,000 portfolio -- Folio customers is going to give us -- from your firm -- is going to give us the opportunity to understand how to work with the buy-and-hold customer and how we can make an acceptable return on housing them without a custody. We also expect that some of these folks, once they get familiar with our platform and all the research and trading tools that are available for free, may become more active customers. William Alfred Nance - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - Research Analyst Got it. Maybe switching gears a bit. Trading in single name option has been a big part of the increase in retail volumes over the past year. Just a high-level question about the industry more broadly. Do you think the industry is striking the right balance between making it easy to trade derivatives versus making sure that investors have the right amount of education and sophistication required to trade these instruments? 5 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 08, 2020 / 4:20PM, IBKR.OQ - Interactive Brokers Group Inc at Goldman Sachs Financial Services Conference (Virtual) Thomas Pechy Peterffy - Interactive Brokers Group, Inc. - Founder & Chairman So I -- to be honest, I never look at other platforms. So I don't really know what other brokers do. We require our customers to either have previous options trading experience or they have to take an online study course and pass a test. Having started in business as an options trader, this is a very important issue for me. And we have spent years to create option-oriented analytical tools to help our option trading customers. We have fantastic tools like Probability Lab is one of my favorite tool that really everybody should understand to -- everybody should experience if they want to understand my way of looking at options. So options are all about probability of future events. They are wonderful tool for people who like to analyze things. But otherwise, they are risky. So if you're unwilling to really learn about it, I don't think you should get into it. William Alfred Nance - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - Research Analyst Makes sense. Maybe switching gears to the regulatory environment. Four years ago, you sat on stage in person, not over Zoom, and shared some views on what the incoming administration might mean for the industry, for the economy. Four years later, you've got a different administration coming in. Do you expect there to be any major changes in the regulatory environment that's relevant for your business? Thomas Pechy Peterffy - Interactive Brokers Group, Inc. - Founder & Chairman I do. I think that regulations will increase and get tighter. Regulators will build up more examination and enforcement staff and compliance costs will increase even further. On the brighter side, competition will diminish because it will be even more difficult for smaller newcomers to basically build out all that what the regulators expect them to build out. So if you were -- there would be a larger (inaudible) larger online brokers. William Alfred Nance - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - Research Analyst Got it. Just a reminder for the audience to submit questions via the webcast, if you have them, and we will -- we'll see if we can get to some of them towards the end here. But, Thomas, maybe sticking with kind of more regulatory developments or jurisdictional developments. I wanted to see if we could get an update on the Brexit issue that you discussed on the earnings call. I think you mentioned you'd applied for several licenses in Europe in order to continue to remain operational for new customers. Do you expect this to be -- do you still expect this to be an issue post year end? And are you anticipating any material impacts as you kind of work to dissolve the licensing issue? Thomas Pechy Peterffy - Interactive Brokers Group, Inc. - Founder & Chairman So in preparation for the Brexit, we secured the brokerage license in Luxembourg because we used to serve our European customers from Interactive Brokers U.K. and after Brexit that will no longer be allowed. So we got this license in Luxembourg only to find out that the regulators would not allow us to accommodate all of our 200,000 customers in the EU because the EU's SIPC coverage guarantees each account for up to $20,000 and Luxembourg could not undertake a potential $40 billion obligation. So they told us that we can only house 10,000 of our 200,000 customers. So upon receiving this terrible news, we immediately applied for licenses in Ireland and Hungary. Each of these license applications are currently pending. And we are very, very optimistic that we will get at least one of them, certainly before the end of the month. 6 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 08, 2020 / 4:20PM, IBKR.OQ - Interactive Brokers Group Inc at Goldman Sachs Financial Services Conference (Virtual) In the future, our EU customer base will be segmented into Western Europe and Central Europe or Eastern Europe. So we'll have Interactive Brokers Ireland, we'll have Luxembourg and we'll have Interactive Brokers Central Europe. William Alfred Nance - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - Research Analyst Got it. That makes sense. So similar topic, different continent, different license, but you had applied for a U.S. bank charter about a year ago. And I think you recently mentioned the time line had been pushed out a couple of quarters. But can you maybe talk about timing and maybe hit on some of the -- what do you think the primary benefits of a bank charter for Interactive would be? Thomas Pechy Peterffy - Interactive Brokers Group, Inc. - Founder & Chairman So the opportunities that -- wait, no, no. So -- the primary benefit would be for our customers to have a seamless experience in funding and withdrawing money through our own bank, right? Owning a bank would give us all the freedom we would need to build the software that we would make a banking and brokerage platform fully integrated and adding other banking services in the future. However, due to the original Brexit-related tasks, this project has moved to the (inaudible). William Alfred Nance - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - Research Analyst Got it. Okay. Let's see, I think recently, you made a few comments that you expect to see some opportunities on the investment advisor platform to win new business from fallout from the merger between Ameritrade and Schwab. Are there any initiatives that you have internally to target that business or make investments in the platform to attract those potential customers? Thomas Pechy Peterffy - Interactive Brokers Group, Inc. - Founder & Chairman The opportunities that many financial advisors had accounts with each Schwab and Ameritrade in order to -- for one account to serve as a backup for the other. We now see a number of such RIAs coming to us and kicking the tires, looking to establish another backup. When they come, they are pleasantly surprised by our newly extended portfolio builder where they can filter stocks by a huge number of criteria, combine them in a portfolio and back test the portfolio, not only for returns but also the variability of these returns and other performance statistics. From here, they can move these portfolios into an updated portfolio allocation and rebalancing tools, namely, they can put several of our model portfolios that they constructed in the portfolio builder together and combine them according to different ways -- weights and continue back testing them. The other thing, they -- these RIAs would be extremely attractive to is the flexible report that they can, in fact, design on our platform to look in any way they like because they love their own. The reports they used to receive, that they want to continue to receive, so we enable them to build that very simply. William Alfred Nance - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - Research Analyst Got it. You talked a little bit before about the difficulty in competing in terms of investment spending versus the large U.S. players with very large technology budgets, particularly after some of the consolidation in the industry that we've seen. Can you talk about the ways that you would approach investment spending to get the most bang for your buck? 7 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 08, 2020 / 4:20PM, IBKR.OQ - Interactive Brokers Group Inc at Goldman Sachs Financial Services Conference (Virtual) Thomas Pechy Peterffy - Interactive Brokers Group, Inc. - Founder & Chairman So it isn't so much about the bang for the buck for us. Technology budget has never been an issue for us. We would be willing to spend a great deal more if we could do that productively. We always have a large number of projects that we would like to do and a limited amount of resources to do that. But the resources are not limited by money, but they are -- but by rather a sufficient number of talented people who are good at building applications and are familiar with the business so that what they build makes practical sense. Our CEO, Milan Galik, is a software engineer and has been with us for 3 decades, during which he learned our business and our culture and our relentless focus on automation. Over the years, he has become a much better manager than I was. And I have no doubt that he will be able to continue to hire and train more talented people to build more applications even faster than we did in the past so that we can continue to fulfill long-term goals and, at the same time, be reactive enough to suddenly changing circumstance in the industry. From our point of view, this is a competition on technology and development, and developers are our most important assets. We must build things and capabilities to our platform that our competitors do not have, which can be well-described by very few words in an ad or by our salespeople because we only get very short attention time and only [infrequently]. We think that we do this quite well. We come from behind in the United States, but very few customers who decide to take a chance on us ever seem to regret it. And we keep on growing faster and faster. Milan is extremely good at directing all these large multitude of projects to fruition so that we will find new capabilities on our platform (inaudible). William Alfred Nance - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - Research Analyst Got it. Maybe sticking with that theme of new capabilities, the last 2 years have been very active in rolling out new products, markets, features onto the platform. I think more recently, you rolled out the Impact Dashboard, which is focused on ESG investing. You've also expanded the mutual fund marketplace. As you look out into next year, how does the pipeline of customer-facing products compare to the past few years? I know you won't tell us what they are. Thomas Pechy Peterffy - Interactive Brokers Group, Inc. - Founder & Chairman So the Impact Dashboard is a new and unique tool in the industry. It is a brain child of my son, William. He's 31. And along with many people his age, he is more focused on ESG and related issues. We think that this tool and its evolution into future versions will be extremely attractive, especially for financially sophisticated younger people who will continue to come to us in greater numbers. 43 is the average age of our customers at this time. We would like to keep near that number, and the ESG impact app will help us do that. Please stay tuned on this tool. You'll see other tools coming soon and lots of young customers to follow. The last 2 years were bountiful with digital tools, the next 2 years will be even more so. William Alfred Nance - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - Research Analyst Understood. Looking forward to that. The long-term guidance on the expense base has been 10% to 15%. It's been in place for a really long time now. Expense growth is at the high end of the range in 2020, but that's obviously in the backdrop of a 50% increase in accounts. And I think on your call, you also indicated that some of that was certainly compliance-related issues and investing in strengthening your controls. And maybe there are even some more onetime and major costs in the run rate this year. 8 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 08, 2020 / 4:20PM, IBKR.OQ - Interactive Brokers Group Inc at Goldman Sachs Financial Services Conference (Virtual) It sounded like the bulk of the work on the compliance front was nearly complete at the end of the third quarter. Can you maybe help investors understand what the increased costs have been? What's kind of more onetime in nature? And as you look out, how do you think about cost increases in this elevated account growth environment? Thomas Pechy Peterffy - Interactive Brokers Group, Inc. - Founder & Chairman So expenses will continue to grow with increased compliance. As I said, we keep looking for and hiring more developers. We have no limits here. We will hire as many good people as we can get. Expanding around the world with more and more offices and more and more customer service will add to expenses. So we'll continuously increase in marketing and sales expenses. Unfortunately, our legal fees keep also rise. So to sum it up, we hope that we will be able to exceed that 15% because we want to grow as fast as we can. So we hope that we'll exceed the 15% rate expense growth, but with controlled growth. The emphasis is on the word "controlled." William Alfred Nance - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - Research Analyst Understood. And I understand you have a hard stop at 11:55. I'm going to squeeze one more question in here. Thomas, the business generates a significant amount of capital over time. The dividend only absorbs a small amount of those earnings. Can you tell us about significant capital base that you have and what you intend to do with it over time? Thomas Pechy Peterffy - Interactive Brokers Group, Inc. - Founder & Chairman So we hope to break the $10 billion mark in equity capital sometime around the end of the coming year. We intend to grow and continue to use the capital to find new subsidiaries, finance various customer needs, but most importantly, to convince more potential customers of our credibility and trustworthiness. That's what it's all about. William Alfred Nance - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - Research Analyst Got it. Well, on that note, Thomas, on behalf of the investors on the call, myself, the firm, thank you so much for joining us yet again, even if it was virtual. We're hoping very much to have you again next year in person, and hope you have a wonderful rest of the year. Thomas Pechy Peterffy - Interactive Brokers Group, Inc. - Founder & Chairman It was a great pleasure, and thank you very much for listening to me. William Alfred Nance - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - Research Analyst All right. Bye bye. Thomas Pechy Peterffy - Interactive Brokers Group, Inc. - Founder & Chairman Bye. 9 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 08, 2020 / 4:20PM, IBKR.OQ - Interactive Brokers Group Inc at Goldman Sachs Financial Services Conference (Virtual) DISCLAIMER Refinitiv reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes. In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized. THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES REFINITIV OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS. 2020, Refinitiv. All Rights Reserved. 13537460-2020-12-08T21:08:21 10 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 08, 2020 / 4:20PM, IBKR.OQ - Interactive Brokers Group Inc at Goldman Sachs Financial Services Conference (Virtual)
REFINITIV STREETEVENTS EDITED TRANSCRIPT 4568.T - Daiichi Sankyo Co Ltd R&D Day EVENT DATE/TIME: DECEMBER 15, 2020 / 10:00AM GMT REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS Antoine Yver Daiichi Sankyo Company, Limited - Global Head of R&D Oncology Junichi Onuma Daiichi Sankyo Company, Limited - VP of Corporate Communications Department Sunao Manabe Daiichi Sankyo Company, Limited - President, Group CEO & Representative Director Wataru Takasaki Daiichi Sankyo Company, Limited - Executive Officer and Head of R&D Division CONFERENCE CALL PARTICIPANTS Akinori Ueda Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - Equity Analyst Fumiyoshi Sakai Crdit Suisse AG, Research Division - Research Analyst Hidemaru Yamaguchi Citigroup Inc., Research Division - Research Analyst Kazuaki Hashiguchi Daiwa Securities Co. Ltd., Research Division - Research Analyst Seiji Wakao JPMorgan Chase & Co, Research Division - VP Shinichiro Muraoka Morgan Stanley, Research Division - Research Analyst Tatsuyuki Arai BofA Merrill Lynch, Research Division - Junior Analyst Yo Mizuno Tokio Marine Asset Management Co., Ltd., Research Division - Analyst PRESENTATION Junichi Onuma - Daiichi Sankyo Company, Limited - VP of Corporate Communications Department Now we would like to start Daiichi Sankyo's R&D Day 2020. I am Junichi Onuma from the Corporate Communications Department. I'm delighted to serve as emcee today. Thank you for your time. Today, our President and CEO, Sunao Manabe; and our Global Head of Oncology R&D, Antoine Yver, will make presentations. After the presentations, we will have time to take your questions. Please note that the Q&A session will be recorded. Thank you for your understanding. Now I'd like to hand it over to Manabe-san. Sunao Manabe - Daiichi Sankyo Company, Limited - President, Group CEO & Representative Director Hello, I'm Sunao Manabe, the CEO of Daiichi Sankyo. Thank you very much for joining Daiichi Sankyo's R&D Day 2020 during the busy end of the year season. This is the second time for me to host our R&D Day as CEO. I make much more important presentations in the course over the year, but I always enjoy to present here. I will present our progress over the last year and then Antoine, our Global Head of Oncology R&D, will take you through where we are relative to oncology R&D as well as future plans. I am satisfied with the development of our 3 ADCs since R&D Day 2019. First, ENHERTU. We have successfully launched ENHERTU in the U.S. and in Japan with the breast cancer indication. The product has been submitted for approval in Europe, and we think the review is on track. The second indication, gastric cancer, has launched in Japan. And in the U.S., FDA accepted our supplemental BLA, even though the data are all from [AGM] population. Lung and colorectal studies as well as early line therapy for breast cancer are all progressing well. Our partnership with AstraZeneca has entered the second year and the relationship between the 2 companies is excellent. I am absolutely confident that AstraZeneca is our best partner. Next is our second ADC, DS-1062. A competitor was launched, but we continue to be confident that our DXd ADC is the best-in-class. I'm also confident that we selected the best partner for DS-1062 as well. Antoine will present some of our recent discussion with AstraZeneca. With regard to the third ADC, U3-1402, the lung data presented at ESMO gained our confidence for the product, and we will start our Phase II study. We could 2 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 15, 2020 / 10:00AM, 4568.T - Daiichi Sankyo Co Ltd R&D Day be registrational, depending on the results. Our breast data presented at the San Antonio Breast Cancer Symposium, which will be discussed later, are important as they help us understand the biology of HER3. In addition, a Phase II study of colorectal has started. The steady progress of the 3 ADCs gained our confidence for achieving Daiichi Sankyo's 2025 Vision. We have gained good progress for the Alpha Project 2. Clinical trials for the following DXd ADCs, DS-7300 and DS-6157, are on track. We are starting to see some early efficacy and safety critical information, which will be provided by Antoine later. Our top line results for DS-5141, the exon 45 skipping drug using our proprietary nucleic acid technology, EMA, should be obtained at the end of this month. Depending on the results, we believe that EMA can be our next platform technology after the DXd ADC. DS-1055 was included in our second quarter financial results presentation in October. We are hoping that DS-1055 will become a novel immuno-oncology drug in the future. This is not on the slide, but on December 3, our CAR-T therapy, Axi-Cel, passed the subcommittee of Japan's Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare. We are now preparing for the launch of our first cell therapy product. In maximizing shareholder value, shareholder return is always a high priority. During the current fiscal year, we have increased dividends and are currently carrying out share buyback. In addition, we have decided on consolidation of treasury shares in next April. Another high priority is optimal investment in -- for future growth. With the current pipeline, we will be aggressive around R&D and capital investment. We will aggressively strive to maximize future profitability as well as shareholder value and sustainable growth. Presenting enhanced capital investment globally is not easy. So I will show 3 photos instead for you to confirm the good progress. Commercial manufacturing for the following ADCs also need to be considered now. And we are increasing manufacturing capacity through capital investment and utilizing CMOs. While our current priority is to invest the pipeline for future growth, there is another important area when the world is suffering from pandemic. We want to contribute through COVID-19 countermeasures, vaccines and therapeutic agents. Today, I will briefly introduce DS-5670, our messenger RNA COVID-19 vaccine. With Daiichi Sankyo's original cationic lipid, our objective is efficient encapsulation of messenger RNA into nanoparticles and efficient delivery to cells. We think that lipid is applicable to pandemic and other vaccines. Encouraging data is being obtained from nonclinical pharmacology studies and clinical studies currently planned to start in March 2021. We are currently putting together a new 5-year business plan that starts from fiscal year 2021. Core part of the plan will be our strategy to enhance the pipeline and the product portfolio. Firstly, the 3 ADCs for sustainable growth. We are planning to present the plan in March or April of next year, so please look forward to that presentation. This is all from me for today and will pass the baton to Antoine. Antoine, you're up. Antoine Yver - Daiichi Sankyo Company, Limited - Global Head of R&D Oncology Thank you, Manabe-san. Good evening from Basking Ridge, New Jersey, our North American headquarters. My name is Antoine Yver, and I'm the Global Head of Oncology R&D for Daiichi Sankyo. I'm really energized today to be in front of you, on behalf of Daiichi Sankyo, for the 5th R&D Day I have the honor to provide at Daiichi Sankyo. Four years after launching cancer enterprise as an internal platform for leadership in oncology, we're proud to now stand up on the global scene on our own feet as a global oncology leader now recognized for the quality of our own science and for delivering the science the patients deserve. Next slide. Today, we'll review briefly our scientific and competitive environment before spending most of the time in reviewing data and plans for our clinical-stage DXd ADCs, before moving on towards our transformation towards a biologics and multi-modality company. Next slide. First, our environment. Next slide, how did we collectively get here to our current world in oncology? So 2000 was a decade where excellent drugs like Gleevec, Iressa and Avastin unleashed the power of targeting and suppressing cancer pathways. The 2010s saw the wonders of immune checkpoint inhibition and the power of redirected T-cell therapy. Despite its excessive exuberance, considering the amount of money invested, so 2010 remains a glorious decade for I-O. As we predicted few years back from this podium, so 2020s are now recognized as a new era, where high-tech pharmacology propels a century-old idea where today's magnificent technology of ADC would change the treatment paradigm away from typical chemotherapy, where you poison both the person and the tumor, wait for the recovery of the person, hit again until you can't 3 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 15, 2020 / 10:00AM, 4568.T - Daiichi Sankyo Co Ltd R&D Day do anymore. On the contrary, ADCs as a true chemotherapy-free approach offers continuous hits on the tumor, 24/7, enabling durability of direct lethal hit on the tumor itself. Next slide. So what is important regarding the ADCs from Daiichi Sankyo? The uniqueness of our DXd ADC technology platform is the duration of effect. This is not a surprise as the technology was specifically designed for that purpose. It is an integrated multi-modality, high-tech molecular construct with a unique mode of action, a high-potency payload, 10x more potent than SN38, and a hyper-stable linker, an exquisite delivery to the tumor and a unique bystander antitumor effect by design, associated with a world-class protein engineering and manufacturing processes. At Daiichi Sankyo, we are now discovering major new avenues of science in acquiring mastery in a new critical pathophysiology regarding the receptor dynamic and its pharmacomodulation. Overall, duration of response is a direct and the most critical benefit of a Daiichi Sankyo proprietary DXd ADC design, and this is what can establish true chemotherapy-free regimens as new paradigm and mainstay of cancer treatment. Next slide. Nevertheless, the competition in ADC is now real. But we are already tackling what is next. We respect our competitors, in particular, Trodelvy, which is a great drug with a bright future. We also see the likes of Merck, Pfizer, et cetera. But the ADC concept alone is old news. Daiichi Sankyo is already blazing new trails, aiming at chemotherapy-free regimen and further exploiting the unique biology of ADCs. Next slide. We're making major headways in the pharmacological manipulation of the ADC receptor biology in selecting the right patients and tumors, in predicting outcomes and designing and arranging for the right patients. Next slide. The immediate value of our top 3 ADC is very clear, breast and lung cancer. And this is our utmost focus, like summarized as an exquisite focus on handling, delivering on their obligation. For breast and DS-8201. In HER2 metastatic and early breast cancer, we have a suite of Phase III trial with the most respected global academic trial partners. In HER2 low, the DESTINY-Breast04 study is fully enrolled and is tracking to read out in fiscal year 2021. For lung, with DS-1062, we are implementing a swift development post-I-O chemo. We have a definitely a Phase III just announced as well as I-O combination aiming at first-line lung cancer. More on that later. For lung also, U3-1402, our HER3 ADC, pursues a fast-to-market development in EGFRm, non-small cell lung cancer as well as a combination with osimertinib based on fascinating science of pharmacomodulation. As we shape the possibilities of our ADCs, we are resolutely focused on our duty, our obligation, deliver the science patients deserve. Next slide. Let's move to our clinical-stage DXd ADCs. Next slide. And first, the 8201, also known as trastuzumab deruxtecan or T-DXd in short. Next slide. In brief, by representing major advances and value for patients, we will cover 5 different aspects. For gastric cancer, the Japan approval in September and the USFDA acceptance of a priority review submission with a PDUFA date of February 28, 2021. For breast cancer, we will spend time on the big story. And the big story is not even the positive opinion received this past Friday from the EU CHMP, which makes ENHERTU the first new molecular entity in more than 2 decades to be approved or recommended for approval in breast cancer on the basis of Phase II single-arm noncontrolled data. This is one of the fastest reviews by CHMP, faster than TAGRISSO, in particular, which speaks to the unique profile of this drug and the strength of the Daiichi Sankyo and AstraZeneca collaboration. No. The big story is the publication at San Antonio Breast Cancer Symposium in the past few days of the unprecedented duration of response for ENHERTU monotherapy in 6 or 7 lines of treatment, a duration which mimics the duration of response reported in first-line HER2 metastatic breast cancer with a triplet of THP or Taxotere, Herceptin and Perjeta. We will also cover lung cancer, the I-O combo, an important new unpublished data on file for ILD. Next slide. First, gastric cancer. Here is a brief reminder of the design of DESTINY-Gastric01, which randomized subject to either T-DXd 6.4 milligram per kilogram or the choice of irinotecan or paclitaxel. Next slide. Here are the efficacy results, delivering the first evidence for ENHERTU of a clinically relevant and statistically significant survival benefit with a 4-month improvement in median, a hazard ratio of 0.59 and a compelling difference in response rates with many cases of all target lesion achieving 100% reduction. Next slide. Here is the summary of the safety finding, including ILD, with an overall incidence of ILD at 9.6% and no Grade 5 death event. 4 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 15, 2020 / 10:00AM, 4568.T - Daiichi Sankyo Co Ltd R&D Day Next slide. Looking ahead, in HER2 advanced gastric cancer, we're announcing DESTINY-Gastric04, a large randomized Phase III study in second line, testing DS-8201 monotherapy versus active control. The study start is imminent as are the details to be published on clinicaltrial.gov. Next slide. Now on to breast. As said before, the European Union CHMP has just adopted a positive opinion, recommending approval for ENHERTU on the basis of an initial submission made as recently as this last May 2020, making this an extremely fast review. The indication, as shown on this slide, as well as the approved SmPC does perfect justice to the data presented as well as the patients' need. We're looking forward to soon receiving the European Commission approval. Now, next slide. On to the duration of response. This is a schematic of the study DESTINY-Breast01, the basis for first approval in all 3 regions, U.S., Japan and now EU. It is a somewhat complex design. Highlighted in green is the main cohort of 184 subjects for evaluating efficacy at the dose of 5.4 milligram per kilogram. Next slide. Here is a critical slide, not only for ENHERTU in patients worldwide with HER2 breast cancer, but also for the Daiichi Sankyo DXd technology, as these finding show the very special and unique nature of our technology, delivering unique durability of response, durability of effect. Let me explain. On the left-hand side is the monotherapy duration of tumor response. You see that duration of response is at 20.8 months and the slope of the curve, which indicates a stable residual risk over time so far. On the bottom right, you see a table which gives updated response result. At 20.5 months of median follow-up, the confirmed overall response rate by independent central review is now at 61.4%, a slight increase compared to the U.S. and Japan labels, with also an increase in a number of complete responses. And in green is a key reference point. This is a golden THP regimen, a true global standard of care in first-line HER2 metastatic breast cancer. This is from the CLEOPATRA study with the triplet of THP with the duration of response observed there was 20.2 months. At 20.8 months in 6 or 7 lines and by monotherapy, our results are unprecedented in breast cancer and a testimony to the unique nature of ENHERTU. Next slide. Here is an important slide as well. Now for ILD by independent adjudication committee. With updated follow-up, the ILD risk clearly appears to flatten after approximately 12 months of exposure. Next slide. So why does durability of response matter? It justifies an accelerated ambitious HER2-positive metastatic in early breast cancer plan. Let me discuss 2 critical design features of this plan. First, what to do with respect to first-line treatment? The clear unmet need in first-line treatment is to increase overall progression-free survival and further prolong the duration of response to treatment. Consequently, for ENHERTU, we have an aggressive and bold plan aiming at first-line metastatic breast cancer. More detail soon. The prevention of brain metastasis is not the critical need at that stage. Brain mets failure after current first-line THP treatment is infrequent. It is terrible but affects only 13.7% of patients. Second, the potential of ENHERTU to be superior to T-DM1 leads to 2 questions. First, after T-DM1 in second line, brain met failure is uncommon. Only 2% in patients who did not have brain mets at treatment start and only, if I may say so, 20% -- 22% if brain mets were present at start of treatment. The clear medical need in second-line treatment is to improve the frequency of overall response and more importantly, durability of overall response and of tumor control overall. Obviously, the direct treatment of brain met is warranted when brain mets represents the cause of failure. Our DESTINY-Breast03 study in second-line metastatic breast cancer, head-to-head versus T-DM1 will answer the question. It is scheduled to read out in second quarter fiscal 2021 with an exact timing yet to be determined. I will describe more on this later. Second, in early breast cancer, we are proud to have launched, with the NSABP and all other highly reputable academic groups, a large post-neoadjuvant trial in high-risk early HER2-positive breast cancer. Next slide. Here are the 2 pillars for our approach to establish the role of DS-8201 in first-line metastatic breast cancer. First, DESTINY-Breast09, which is a randomized, active control Phase III study of DS-8201 monotherapy versus DS-8201 in combination versus standard of care of THP. We have completed our deep and detailed interaction with the FDA and other agencies and are ready to roll. Second, DESTINY-Breast07 as well as the BEGONIA study at AstraZeneca are combination studies which will inform at least another Phase III in the first-line setting versus THP. 5 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 15, 2020 / 10:00AM, 4568.T - Daiichi Sankyo Co Ltd R&D Day Next slide. Here are some more details about DESTINY-Breast05, our post-neoadjuvant study versus T-DM1. This is run with the U.S. NSABP as well as the German GBG group and the AGO-B group, SOLTI and many others, including in Asia. This study is conducted in subject with residual invasive disease in breast or axillary lymph nodes following new adjuvant therapy for high-risk HER2 early breast cancer with total of 1,600 patients approximately and IDFS as a primary endpoint. Next slide. What about HER2 low, in other words, HER2-negative breast cancer, either HR+ or triple neg breast cancer? In late-line post-chemotherapy, our entry point is DESTINY-Breast04. The rationale for that study is in J101 study, where we observed a confirmed overall response rate of 37%, a median duration of response of 10.4 months in the HER2 low metastatic breast cancer cohort. DESTINY-Breast04 has fully enrolled approximately 540 subjects and tests DS-8201 versus the physician choice of eribulin, gemcitabine, paclitaxel or nab-pac, with PFS by blinded independent central review as the primary endpoint. An event-driven analysis is projected in the second quarter of fiscal 2021. In first-line chemotherapy, we're running DESTINY-Breast06, 850 subjects. DS-8201 versus physician choice of capecitabine, paclitaxel or nab-pac, with PFS by BICR as primary endpoint. Finally, in earlier metastatic breast cancer line, bold innovative plan will be announced. Of note, in HR+ and early breast cancer, the adjuvant segment is not our area of focus. And between Jos Baselga, my counterpart and my long-time friend at AZ, and myself, we know very well, drug development and breast cancer. We will make no more comments. Next slide. Moving on to lung cancer. A quick review of critical data presented at ASCO last June in HER2 mutant non-small cell lung cancer. An impressive response rate, duration of response, [PFM] that formed the basis for USFDA breakthrough designation. We expect the final analysis of the HER2 mutation expanded cohorts to take place in the first half of 2021, with analysis criteria meeting the FDA's expectation. Next slide. So what do we do to design and maximize the benefit of durability? In HER2 mutant, on the left-hand side, beyond the DESTINY-Lung01 expansion, which I've just described, we are conducting DESTINY-Lung02, comparing 2 doses of 8201 after detailed FDA consultations. And we'll start DESTINY-LungXX, a placebo first-line Phase III study, in the planning stage for now and aiming at first half of fiscal 2021. In HER2 expressing, the current generation of IHC monoclonal antibody cross-reacts with -- in lung cancer with non-HER2 protein, some non-HER2 epitopes, some of which have now been identified. The next-generation IHC is under development for lung cancer. Meanwhile, we wait for the fully enrolled DESTINY-Lung01 IHC-expressing cohort to mature. Next slide. Now colorectal. A quick review of critical data presented at ASCO in June in HER2 expressing, meaning IHC 3+ colorectal cancer. A 45.3% overall response rate with a median duration of response not reached at the time of this analysis. We are conducting a nonregistrational study, DESTINY-CRC02, testing 5.4 and 6.4 milligram per kilogram and also sorting out the role of RAS mutation, if any. Next slide. We have covered a lot of ground so far, and the next 3 slides are graphical integrated schematic representation of the clinical development plan year for breast cancer. Note that some of these are purely directional. Next slide. And here, for gastric and lung cancer. And next slide, for CRC as well as other cases I've not described in much detail. Next slide. Here, you see the DS-8201 critical short-term Phase III study data forecast. First, DESTINY-Breast02 in HER2-positive metastatic breast cancer third line versus standard of care. The event-driven final analysis is projected for the second quarter of fiscal 2021. We still, at this time, a pretty wide 95% confidence interval on the date projection of approximately 5 months. Second, the critical DESTINY-Breast03 in HER2-positive second-line metastatic breast cancer, the head-to-head comparison versus T-DM1 with an event-driven planned interim analysis projected for second quarter fiscal 2021 and the same uncertainty of approximately 5 months on the actual data cut-off date. And finally, the DESTINY-Breast04 in HER2 low metastatic breast cancer versus standard of care with an event-driven final analysis projected for second quarter fiscal 2021 and a smaller uncertainty of approximately 4 months. Next slide. Now moving to the nivolumab combination just presented at San Antonio Breast Cancer a few days ago. Here is the study design. Next slide. In here, the efficacy highlights, not that we could expect to predict the success and efficacy of the I-O combo. There are just no good surrogate markers for the benefit of adding I-O to a standard of care in a non-I-O-sensitive tumor. 6 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 15, 2020 / 10:00AM, 4568.T - Daiichi Sankyo Co Ltd R&D Day Next slide. And here are the spider plots. The quick -- the key question of this study was to establish that both drugs can be safely and durably administered at therapeutic doses. Next slide. Here is the safety. On the left, the ILD, in percent, first, the total of any grade and then, from left to right, by increasing grades. We clearly do not see any compelling risk increase. We're obviously planning to move with I-O combination with DS-8201 and also borrow these data for the other DXd program to perform accelerated safety assessment. This represents a nice transition to another important subject, presenting now data not published before. Next slide. Here, you see the preliminary cumulative ILD data from all Phase III monotherapy study now ongoing. It uses the same format, percent, first total and then increasing grade from left to right. Since these study are controlled, we assume that all ILD cases, regardless of randomization arm and adjudicated by the adjudication committee, are, in fact, related to the DS-8201 treatment. We've then estimated the number of subjects treated with DS-8201 in this study at approximately 979. The graph shows a very reassuring picture, our ILD safe-use campaign seems to be effective. It combines clear selection out of patients with risk factor, awareness and rapid investigation of any possible case as well as good treatment of any case. Next slide. Here, you see the post-market cumulative pharmacovigilance reported data, left in the U.S., right in Japan. More than 1,000 patient years exposure in the U.S., 2 fatal cases and an added 160 patient years in Japan and no death reported. Next slide. So where do we stand? We focus on a massive opportunity for DS-8201 to address many unmet medical needs and increase our competitive edge by acceleration, large-scale and global program, bold plan aiming at first-line HER2 metastatic breast cancer, as early HER2 breast cancer and a critical role for HER2 low breast cancer. We also pursue a broad tumor expansion, and we will build on the I-O DXd combo. Next slide. Moving on to DS-1062, our TROP2 DXd ADC, datopotamab deruxtecan or Dato-DXd in short. Next slide. Here are key characteristics for DS-1062. It is engineered to be best-in-class TROP2 ADC. It carries all the characteristics of our DXd ADC technology, so critical to deliver its most important feature, durability response and overall tumor control. All 7 technology features listed on the right-hand side equally contribute to the profile. Next slide. Here is the first-in-human study design in subject with advanced or metastatic non-small cell lung cancer relapse from or refractory to standard of care and for the very vast majority, I-O and platinum-based chemotherapy. The dose escalation is completed and as the enrollment of a dose expansion for a total of 180 subjects across 3 doses in dose expansion. The triple-negative breast cancer cohort recently added is also nearly complete. Next slide. A quick glimpse at data. Here, spider plots across the 3 doses with still immature data at the September 2020 cutoff, and the pattern clearly matching that observed with the DXd platform, i.e., excellent durability. Next slide. On the ILD side, here are the graphs. Top left of the total incidents, regardless of the doses and tumor type, and the next 3 for the doses of 4-, bottom left, and 6- and 8-milligram per kilogram on the right. What do we do with this? We are running. Next slide. TROPION-Lung01 is a pivotal Phase III study in post-I-O and chemotherapy in non-small cell lung cancer. Patients with non-small cell lung cancer without actionable mutation and 1 to 2 prior line of platinum-based and immune checkpoint inhibitor treatment are eligible regardless of TROP2 expression by current test. All subjects will provide a fresh biopsy to support our prospective plan to retrospectively test. A total of 590 subjects will be randomized 1:1 to DS-62 at the dose we have selected of 6-milligram per kilogram, or docetaxel 75-milligram per meter square, with a primary endpoint of PFS by BICR and overall survival. We are really excited by the level of evidence we have observed to support this critical study. We also have a massive in-house as well as an externally partnered research effort on the biology of TROP2 as a receptor for ADC therapy, and we are very confident to bring substantial discovery to this field. These very new understandings will inform the study as well as our development plan and the DXd franchise at large. This is where Daiichi Sankyo also leads and blazes a new trail, made possible by the advent of this highly innovative, high-tech pharmacology. 7 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 15, 2020 / 10:00AM, 4568.T - Daiichi Sankyo Co Ltd R&D Day Next slide. What else are we doing with our partner AstraZeneca? We are bold. We're looking at non-small cell lung cancer first-line, non-small cell lung cancer activating mutation, breast cancer and beyond. In non-small cell lung cancer, first-line is a clear and immediate objective. To that effect, enabling immuno-oncology Phase I combination plan is underway, TROPION-Lung02 with pembrolizumab in collaboration with Merck and TROPION-Lung04 with AstraZeneca durvalumab. Finally, for lung, TROPION-Lung05 is for DS-1062 monotherapy in non-small cell lung cancer with activating mutation. For breast cancer and beyond, the triple-negative breast cancer Phase I cohort has nearly completed enrollment, as I said before, and is maturing. For breast cancer at large, we are planning a very substantial plan. And other tumor cohorts are also planned. We appreciate you may be looking for more details. We are short here on purpose. The Daiichi Sankyo and AstraZeneca have a clear game plan: We have a bold, large clinical development plan, which we will characterize in due time. Our strategy is to win with utmost focus in lung and breast cancer. This is a very reason why we choose to collaborate with AstraZeneca. Next slide. Moving on to U3-1402 or patritumab deruxtecan or, in short, HER3-DXd. Next slide. Here are the highlights of our non-small cell lung cancer EGFR and Phase I study as presented at ESMO this year. The subjects are resistant to or refractory to EGFR TKIs as well as platinum-based chemotherapy. If they had a T790M mutation, they also must have failed osimertinib before being considered for this study. Both the waterfall plot and the spider plot appear familiar for our DXd technology. Next slide. And here is the highlight of safety. Very consistent with previously seen profile. Combined together, these results form the basis of our recent extensive consultations with FDA and the design our pivotal study. Next slide. Here is a design HERTHENA-Lung01, a pivotal Phase II study in advanced EGFR-mutated non-small cell lung cancer to start in January 2021. EGFRm lung cancer is a tumor type where we have now observed stable and free expression and U3-1402 offers a unique, simple opportunity post-TKI and chemo. This is also important as we have now observed compelling opportunity for pharmacomodulation of the receptor and receptor ADC interaction in combination with osimertinib. Next slide. Here is a new study also to start in January 2029 (sic) [January 2021]. Testing in Phase 1, the combination of 1402 with osimertinib. While this is a combination trial with an AstraZeneca drug done in partnership, please remember, we do not have a co-development collaboration with AstraZeneca for 1402. Next slide. Now moving to breast cancer. Here's a snapshot of updated data breast Phase I cohort just presented at San Antonio Breast Cancer Symposium across HER3 high, HER3 low and 2 doses of 4.8- and 6.4-milligram per kilogram. These look fine on the surface. Next slide. The spider plots seem to raise question on durability with some heterogeneity on how tumor growth control is observed over time. Next slide. Here is a safety summary. Again, very consistent with prior reports in the low frequency and severity of ILD. The real questions are suggested on the next few slides. Next slide. First, even before treatment with U3-1402, in breast cancer, we observed, on the left panel, a reduction of IHC level of HER3 expression. More importantly, on the right panel, we see a very substantial and frequent decrease of HER3 membrane positivity level between pretreatment level and at cycle 2, day 3 or cycle 3, day 3, meaning approximately day 24 or 45 post-first dose. We are actually beginning to decipher quite well the HER3 receptor biology implicated here and will present more data at the forthcoming scientific conferences. Very seemingly, a strong element of tumor type and specificity, which is not surprising. Next slide. Here, we see that HER3 expression in breast cancer by membrane IHC positivity on the top 2 graphs or by mRNA expression, the bottom 2 graphs. This expression does not correlate with best tumor response as assessed by blinded independent central review. Much work to do if we want to find the right selection test in breast cancer. This is now a key part, with TROP2, of our massive precision medicine and translational science effort at many globally leading places such as the Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, the Dana Farber Cancer Institute, Gustave Roussy Cancer Campus, Sarah Cannon as well as the National Cancer Center in Japan, and of course, our great internal labs. 8 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 15, 2020 / 10:00AM, 4568.T - Daiichi Sankyo Co Ltd R&D Day Next slide. Finally, ILD for U3-1402, clearly not an issue at this development stage. Next slide. Moving on to our next-to-come DXd ADC. Next slide. This table summarizes key features and status for our next-in-line ADC. DS-7300 is our B7-H3 and is now in its 15 months since starting the first-in-human study. We have completed enrollment in dose level 7 at 12-milligram per kilogram and assessment up to dose level 6 with, so far, not a single DLT observed. Even in an unselected patient population, we have observed multiple separate RECIST-confirmed responses. DS-6157 is progressing nicely. DS-6000 is a new, not yet disclosed until now ADC, targeting cadherin 6 with a drug antibody ratio of 8 of the DXd technology. It aims at ovarian and renal cell carcinoma. We're planning to hopefully initiate the first-in-human study in the next quarter. Finally, DS-3939 is our TA-MUC1 ADC. Still a good year-plus away from going in the clinic. Next slide. Here are some of our key non-ADC so-called Alpha asset and their status. We recently announced initiation of a first-in-human study of DS-1055, our anti-GARP+ or anti-activated T-cell Reg asset. DS-3201 is our dual EZH1/2 inhibitor. It is in pivotal phase in Japan under SAKIGAKE designation for ATL and in global pivotal phase -- in Phase II in relapsed and refractory PTCL. We are actively exploring the clinical relevance of a dual inhibition in other hematological malignancy. Axi-Cel or Kite C19, which we licensed for Japan from Kite, pre-Gilead-Kite acquisition, is expecting approval in Japan this very month. Pexidartinib is progressing nicely in Japan and Southeast Asia. And for quizartinib, despite our setbacks in U.S. and Europe for the relapsed/refractory indication, we continue to believe that the placebo-controlled QuANTUM-First Phase III study in first-line AML is a critical and important study and will be the first of its kind to report final analysis in second half of fiscal 2021. Next slide. Overall, I hope we've been able to give you a tangible measure and feel of the continued transformation of Daiichi Sankyo towards being a biologics and multi-modality global company. Next slide. As briefly alluded to by Manabe-san earlier, we are serious and delivering extremely well on our ADC clinical and commercial supply strategy. We are delivering on the needs and on our promises. We are meeting commercial and development obligation with a massive scale-up and acceleration. We're also powering through some residual pinch point so that DS-1062 supply will not slow down the Daiichi Sankyo-AstraZeneca acceleration. Next slide. As previously explained, we truly believe in our uniqueness in being serial innovator. We investigate deeply the biology and pharmacology of ADC at the receptor and cellular biology level, as previously said. Our next ADC construct continue to track for fiscal 2022. Next slide. Here is our top line news flow for the next 6 months and also key catalysts. This completes the primary presentation, and we will now take questions. Junichi Onuma - Daiichi Sankyo Company, Limited - VP of Corporate Communications Department Today, in addition to Sunao Manabe and Antoine Yver, our Head of R&D Division, Wataru Takasaki, will be on hand to answer your questions. We will answer your questions through the conference call. So if you have questions, please join the call. The conference call details, including telephone number, will be sent to you by e-mail upon registration through the entry form, which we sent in advance. Participants who do not ask questions may continue to watch the Q&A session through live broadcasting. Operator [Interpreted] The Q&A session will start at 7:55 p.m. Thank you for your patience. We have a consecutive interpreter in the Q&A session. Thank you for understanding. 9 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 15, 2020 / 10:00AM, 4568.T - Daiichi Sankyo Co Ltd R&D Day QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS Operator [Interpreted] Thank you for waiting. Now let's begin Q&A session. (Operator Instructions) Hidemaru Yamaguchi - Citigroup Inc., Research Division - Research Analyst [Interpreted] Yamaguchi from Citigroup. And I'd like to ask a question one by one in Japanese. My first question is about DS-8201, and Antoine-san mentioned that you have a more aggressive plan for early metastatic breast cancer, you're considering. So is -- are you referring to something different from the current idea in this respect? If you have any particular idea, please share. Sunao Manabe - Daiichi Sankyo Company, Limited - President, Group CEO & Representative Director [Interpreted] Manabe-san speaking. For this question, Antoine, please answer this question. Antoine Yver - Daiichi Sankyo Company, Limited - Global Head of R&D Oncology This is Antoine Yver. So thank you. We have more plans than what is presented. We are presenting one study now. And this study will be followed by other study, at least 1 or 2 study informed by the BEGONIA study in particular. So we are planning to have more than one study to define a new standard of care for first-line metastatic breast cancer, HER2-positive. I hope I'm answering the question. We will disclose later the detail. Hidemaru Yamaguchi - Citigroup Inc., Research Division - Research Analyst [Interpreted] I have another question. I have another question. Regarding DS-8201 in lung cancer. It has been granted a breakthrough designation, and you're now accumulating final data of the patient. And once you collect the data in the United States, it sounded that it's possible to file immediately after the collection of the data in the United States. Is my understanding correct? That's my second question. Sunao Manabe - Daiichi Sankyo Company, Limited - President, Group CEO & Representative Director [Interpreted] Manabe-san speaking. Antoine, please answer this question. Antoine Yver - Daiichi Sankyo Company, Limited - Global Head of R&D Oncology Yes. Thank you for the question and clarification. Yes, the plan is to submit as soon as we have accumulated the necessary data from DESTINY-Lung01 expansion, primarily. This will be a submission in the U.S. The European plan are still under discussion. So the U.S. will be primarily based on the DESTINY-Lung01 and will be later supported by the DESTINY-Lung02. Hidemaru Yamaguchi - Citigroup Inc., Research Division - Research Analyst [Interpreted] This is my last question regarding DS-7300. This could be the fourth ADC and its data may become available soon. So I'd like to ask Manabe-san whether this could also be a target or the subject of the alliance? Unidentified Participant [Interpreted] And regarding this matter, Manabe would like to respond. Manabe would like to respond. 10 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 15, 2020 / 10:00AM, 4568.T - Daiichi Sankyo Co Ltd R&D Day Sunao Manabe - Daiichi Sankyo Company, Limited - President, Group CEO & Representative Director [Interpreted] This is often-asked question, also about the third ADC, 1402. But regarding this DS-7300, for the time being, we'd like to do the development in-house for this compound. And for the fourth product, we still do not have the data yet. So we do not have any specific or concrete plan for the alliance for the time being. Thank you very much. Operator (foreign language) Shinichiro Muraoka - Morgan Stanley, Research Division - Research Analyst [Interpreted] Muraoka from Morgan Stanley is speaking. I also like to ask the question one by one. First of all, I'd like to ask you about the DS-1062 in triple-negative breast cancer. And I heard that enrollment is almost complete. And can we expect the ORR data at ASCO meeting next year? And also, if the ORR is going to exceed 33% in triple-negative breast cancer, meaning it's going to exceed Trodelvy, can I understand that you can file immediately based on this level of data, if you have such data? Sunao Manabe - Daiichi Sankyo Company, Limited - President, Group CEO & Representative Director [Interpreted] Manabe-san speaking. I'd like to ask Antoine to respond to this question. Antoine Yver - Daiichi Sankyo Company, Limited - Global Head of R&D Oncology Thank you. So the enrollment is almost complete. We will not publish at ASCO, but at San Antonio, most likely. ASCO will be too early because the data cutoff is in 1.5 months from now. So there's not enough time. We are not speculating about the results and not speak anything about the potential submission in triple-negative breast cancer. Our fast-to-market is currently -- our effort are in lung cancers. Shinichiro Muraoka - Morgan Stanley, Research Division - Research Analyst [Interpreted] My next question is about U3-1402 in lung cancer. You have Lung01 study with U3-1402, and this study is going to start from now on. And regarding the results, are they going to become available in 2022 or rather 2023? Or is it possible to see a data in 2022 as well? What I want to say is that regarding 1062, lung cancer results will become available mainly in 2022. And almost, at the same timing, can we also expect the results from the U3-1402 lung cancer study, 01 study, as well? Sunao Manabe - Daiichi Sankyo Company, Limited - President, Group CEO & Representative Director [Interpreted] Manabe-san speaking. Antoine, please answer this question. Antoine Yver - Daiichi Sankyo Company, Limited - Global Head of R&D Oncology Thank you. So the end of the lung study 01 for HER3 will depend if we complete enrollment at 210 subjects in each of arm #1 and arm #2. That will depend on external data on whether or not we carry both dosing regimen forward or drop one. So the end of enrollment and results are most likely to be in 2022 at the same time as lung for 1062. Remember that 1062 is in non-EGFR mutant and 1402 is in EGFR mutant, both in late line. 11 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 15, 2020 / 10:00AM, 4568.T - Daiichi Sankyo Co Ltd R&D Day Shinichiro Muraoka - Morgan Stanley, Research Division - Research Analyst [Interpreted] This is my last question. It's not about oncology, but your vaccine product, DS-5670 for COVID-19. You are going to initiate a Phase I study in March. And the Shionogi part of the top running group, compared to that, just 3 months behind. So you have to consider your supply at this moment. And Shionogi is saying that they can provide doses -- 30 million doses in the middle of next year. So what about the level of Daiichi Sankyo's capacity? Unidentified Participant [Interpreted] Manabe would like to respond to this question. Manabe would like to respond. Sunao Manabe - Daiichi Sankyo Company, Limited - President, Group CEO & Representative Director [Interpreted] In March next year, we are aiming to start the clinical activities. And we already are preparing for the CTM or investigational product. But with regards to commercial production and also the implementation of the studies, we still do not know what is going to be like Phase I, II and III studies. And we are increasing our capacities but I'd like to refrain from giving you an accurate answer to your question at the moment. Shinichiro Muraoka - Morgan Stanley, Research Division - Research Analyst [Interpreted] One additional question. Are you having an idea or considering possibility of the scale of dozens of millions of doses for your vaccine? That's the additional question. Sunao Manabe - Daiichi Sankyo Company, Limited - President, Group CEO & Representative Director [Interpreted] We are hoping that we can achieve that level. But number-wise, it could be difficult. Operator (foreign language) Kazuaki Hashiguchi - Daiwa Securities Co. Ltd., Research Division - Research Analyst [Interpreted] Hashiguchi from Daiwa Securities. I also would like to ask a few questions. First, I'd like to ask you about the data on the combination of ENHERTU and Opdivo. And the efficacy in the combination may not be so different compared to the monotherapy, but it's important to see -- consider the potential of the combination of ENHERTU and other DXd and I-O therapies. Do you have to consider what kind of data you can obtain? And what's your view on the synergy effect of these combinations? That's my question. Sunao Manabe - Daiichi Sankyo Company, Limited - President, Group CEO & Representative Director [Interpreted] Manabe-san speaking. Antoine, please answer this question. Antoine Yver - Daiichi Sankyo Company, Limited - Global Head of R&D Oncology Thank you. The Phase I data in the I-O combination had one purpose, which was to prove that both drugs could be given at therapeutic doses. And we were very pleased in patients with 5 prior lines of treatment to be able to give the normal doses. And at the time on -- of data analysis, 56% 12 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 15, 2020 / 10:00AM, 4568.T - Daiichi Sankyo Co Ltd R&D Day of patients were on treatment. And at that time, the median duration of treatment exceeded 6 months. So we have a regimen which can be given at full dose and give good result and continues on treatment. There is no measure of the potential for synergy, especially when I-O is as in breast tumor -- breast cancer, not an active therapy. The only proof of synergy will be by doing the randomized Phase III combination study versus standard of care to prove the added benefit of I-O, and this is our plan. Kazuaki Hashiguchi - Daiwa Securities Co. Ltd., Research Division - Research Analyst [Interpreted] My second question is about the safety of DS-1062. This time -- today, there was a presentation of the data on ILD only. But what about the adverse event and toxicity for the GI, the membrane toxicities. And in the 6-milligram per kilo, what kind of data do you have? Compared to the data presented at ASCO, what is your latest data on the toxicity other than ILD for a 6-milligram per kilo dose? And how this is going to change the sales potential, if any? Unidentified Participant [Interpreted] For the AEs and toxicities, other than ILD, Manabe-san would like to ask Antoine to respond. Antoine Yver - Daiichi Sankyo Company, Limited - Global Head of R&D Oncology Thank you. So we have not updated the data for the other toxicity. We will present data in -- months from now at World Lung Cancer Conference (sic) [World Conference on Lung Cancer] in January. The only data I presented are a snapshot of the duration of response by -- not the duration, the spider plots and a snapshot of ILD. We have not observed any concern, new, in non -- in the non-ILD general safety profile. So we have not observed anything of relevance for the conduct of the clinical development of 1062. But we will update in details at World Lung Cancer. Sunao Manabe - Daiichi Sankyo Company, Limited - President, Group CEO & Representative Director [Interpreted] Manabe speaking. Because of those situations, there is no change to the sales potential for the time being. Kazuaki Hashiguchi - Daiwa Securities Co. Ltd., Research Division - Research Analyst [Interpreted] This is my last question. This is about DS-6000, and you're targeting cadherin 6. And I'd like to know the characteristics and the features of this target or the drug. A few years ago, there was a Phase I study for an ADC by another company, but I don't think their development is making progress since. I would like to ask you why you are targeting cadherin 6? And why do you think this ADC target can be promising? And why do you think the other company was not so successful in their development? And why do you think you can be successful by using DXd? Unidentified Participant [Interpreted] And Manabe-san would like Antoine to respond to this question. Antoine Yver - Daiichi Sankyo Company, Limited - Global Head of R&D Oncology Thank you. So we are confident in the target and we have the necessary preclinical. We have a drug-antibody ratio of 8 for this particular target, which indicates that, in our preclinical and toxicology studies, we believe that 8 is a correct drug-antibody ratio, just like 8201 or -- we also have belief in this target, which is highly expressed in renal cell carcinoma as well as in ovarian cancer and differentially expressed compared to normal. 13 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 15, 2020 / 10:00AM, 4568.T - Daiichi Sankyo Co Ltd R&D Day I cannot speculate why the prior company failed. There are many reasons why an ADC fail and many of these reasons are not linked to the target. Most of the time it is a construct itself, which is insufficient, which doesn't have the full necessary technology to succeed. So I cannot speculate, but we are very confident, and we will give more details as we actually progress the asset in the clinic in the next 3 or 4 months. Operator (foreign language) Fumiyoshi Sakai - Crdit Suisse AG, Research Division - Research Analyst [Interpreted] Sakai from Credit Suisse speaking. I have 3 questions. First of all, I'd like to ask you a question about ILD risk management for DS-8201. There are cases -- you talked about the ILD cases for top 2 ADC as well in the presentation. But most of the time, these cases can be controlled and managed with steroids in principle, I think. And Antoine-san also said that it's possible to manage the risk based on the experiences you have accumulated. And can I understand that most of the cases can be controlled substantially with steroid treatment? That's my first question. Sunao Manabe - Daiichi Sankyo Company, Limited - President, Group CEO & Representative Director [Interpreted] Manabe speaking, I would like to ask Antoine to respond to this question. Antoine Yver - Daiichi Sankyo Company, Limited - Global Head of R&D Oncology Thank you. A very important question and a lot of efforts to educate, to monitor, to assess and to treat any potential risk of ILD in clinical development, but also in the market. And we also exclude patients with prior history, which of lung disease, which may make them at risk. So yes, the ILD can be managed. It cannot be eliminated. I think the Slide #43 in the presentation, where we present all Phase III monotherapy studies as of less than a month ago, is very reassuring. These are primary data. The denominator is an assumption, and we assume all cases were from the treatment. But this is very reassuring as we have very, very few cases overall, much fewer than what we had observed initially. And very few grade 3, 4 and 5 cases out of 1,000 -- nearly 1,000 patients. These studies are ongoing, but most of these studies will report in the next year. So most of the treatment are very advanced. And we have seen for 8201, that the risk after 12 months plateaus. So really, this picture is reassuring to us. Fumiyoshi Sakai - Crdit Suisse AG, Research Division - Research Analyst [Interpreted] Could you also talk about the effectiveness or the efficacy of steroid treatment for ILD as well? Antoine Yver - Daiichi Sankyo Company, Limited - Global Head of R&D Oncology Yes. What this is -- one of the last observation we made was that investigators and doctors recognize ILD much, much better now, but they tend to under-treat, meaning treat with that high enough doses of steroid or for too short period of time. So the last efforts we have had in the marketplace and in clinical development was to educate doctors about the importance of steroid, and this is probably what is the reason why we're observing the number we're observing in market -- in the post-market data as well as the Phase III monotherapy study. There, it's very important and they need to be administered correctly. They do have an effect. That's what we seem to be seeing. 14 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 15, 2020 / 10:00AM, 4568.T - Daiichi Sankyo Co Ltd R&D Day Fumiyoshi Sakai - Crdit Suisse AG, Research Division - Research Analyst [Interpreted] I have another question. This time about TROP2 ADC DS-1062. And I understand that this is an all-comer study. And you are -- there is no particular impact of the TROP2 expression on the patient's response rate. This is how you are assuming in this study, it seems. So I'd like to confirm whether my understanding is correct, that you're assuming that there's going to be an impact of the TROP2 expression on the response rate. And also, I might have missed. But this time, you talked about the spider plot. And I thought that 8-milligram per kilo dose, a high dose can be difficult to be used. You were saying before that you were exploring or try to find the dose among 4-, 6- and 8-milligram per kilo. But looking at the results, can I understand that you have a certain direction for the dose selection for the future? So these are my 2 questions on TROP2 ADC. Sunao Manabe - Daiichi Sankyo Company, Limited - President, Group CEO & Representative Director [Interpreted] And Manabe-san speaking. Antoine, please answer this question. Antoine Yver - Daiichi Sankyo Company, Limited - Global Head of R&D Oncology Thank you. So we have -- I'll answer the second question. We have decided on the dose in launching the TROPION-Lung01 Phase III study, which is pivotal after IO and chemotherapy non-small cell lung cancer. We are testing DS-1062 at 6-milligram per kilogram versus docetaxel. So we have chosen the dose of 6 in collaboration with AstraZeneca. On your question about TROP2 expression. With the current test, we are not observing a predictive value of TROP2 expression on response rate. We are very confident that we will find the correct measure to predict patients will most benefit from this particular therapy. We are not describing this method or methods now, but we are very confident we will have a method to discriminate. And in TROPION-Lung01, all subjects will provide a biopsy so that we can prospectively plan to retrospectively test for the marker selection. Fumiyoshi Sakai - Crdit Suisse AG, Research Division - Research Analyst [Interpreted] This is my last question. And I'd like to ask this to Manabe-San. What's the update on the litigation pending on ADC with Seagen? To this question, Manabe, would you like to respond? Sunao Manabe - Daiichi Sankyo Company, Limited - President, Group CEO & Representative Director [Interpreted] Manabe would like to respond to that question. And Seagen is saying that based on their patent they have acquired recently, they are saying that we are infringing their patent. And Daiichi Sankyo believes that Seagen's newly acquired patent itself is invalid. So we don't think we are infringing their patent. So we'd like to clarify our assertion in the rule of law or court through this ruling by the justice. And we filed a lawsuit against them in November with the Federal District Court in the State of Delaware, and that's the current update. And if there is any progress in this case, I'd like to report this to you. Thank you very much. Akinori Ueda - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - Equity Analyst [Interpreted] Ueda from, Goldman Sachs Securities. And first, about 8201, and I have an additional question about ILD with DS-8201. There was a chart on Page 44 in the presentation, and you talked about the incidence of ILD in Japan and the United States. But it seems that there is a big difference in the incidence of ILD between Japan and the United States. So are there any factors behind the big difference in the ILD incidence? 15 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 15, 2020 / 10:00AM, 4568.T - Daiichi Sankyo Co Ltd R&D Day And also to identify patients at high risk of ILD, before, you were saying that you're also looking at their past history of treatment with multiple drugs -- particular drugs. But how are you identifying high-risk patients right now? So that's my first question. Unidentified Participant [Interpreted] And Manabe-san would like Antoine to respond. Antoine Yver - Daiichi Sankyo Company, Limited - Global Head of R&D Oncology So number one, you are correct. The number of events reported in Japan relative to the number of events reported in the U.S. appears to be different. These are number of events reported through the pharmacovigilance system. It is likely to reflect 2 things. One is that ILD awareness in Japan is much higher and thus, more likely to be reported. And more importantly, there's also a higher incidence of lower grade, so grade 1 or grade 1 and grade 2, in Japan, not only for 8201, but generally speaking, for drug inducing ILD. So really, the key numbers here are less the any grade and more of the deaths or fatal cases. And what was reassuring in these pictures that we only had 2 and 0 in the U.S. and in Japan. With respect to the high-risk, what we've identified are risk of -- as risk factor are pulmonary -- history of pulmonary disease such as BPCO, obviously, hemopathy, ILD risk factors, abnormal lung function at the entry. The prior treatment has not been and is not an exclusion factor. So the prior anti-cancer treatment is not an exclusion factor, although we seem to observe that the longer the patients have had cancer treatment and the more likely that the patient has ILD, it's probably the cumulative total dose of cancer treatment, which makes it a risk factor, but we are still investigating that aspect. Akinori Ueda - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - Equity Analyst [Interpreted] My second question is about DS-1055. And I'd like to know your development strategy. Theoretically speaking, there can be an add-on effect by the IO therapies, and they're more doublet IO therapies, the IAPD-1, PD-L1 antibody to be combined in the doublet therapy that's increasing these days. So is there any possibility of combining DS-1055 on top of the other 2 IO antibodies to make triplet therapy? And what is going to be your development strategy? That's my second question. Unidentified Participant [Interpreted] And Manabe-san would like Antoine to respond. Antoine Yver - Daiichi Sankyo Company, Limited - Global Head of R&D Oncology So thank you. We are excited to enter IO with an asset of Daiichi Sankyo Discovery. DS-1055 target is not a new target, but it had been before tested by others, and they failed. We believe our construct is more likely to succeed. The first-in-human study will have to establish, not only the safety, but also some biological evidence that we reduce the regulatory -- activity of regulatory T cells to reduce the number of the activity T-regs in the tumor. Then our development is to indeed combine with immunotherapy agent 102, but this will come once we have established a safe dose and a dose which is biologically active on the depletion of activity T-regs. 16 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 15, 2020 / 10:00AM, 4568.T - Daiichi Sankyo Co Ltd R&D Day Akinori Ueda - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - Equity Analyst [Interpreted] My last question is about DS-5670. And you are using your own unique liposome. And it's different from what Pfizer and Moderna are using. So you may have to take more time in your development and look at this more carefully perhaps. So for the antigen protein, are you using S protein? And are you also using the pulling metastasis to stabilize the structure like Pfizer or Moderna? So this is my last question. Unidentified Participant [Interpreted] And Manabe-san would like to ask Takasaki-san to respond. Wataru Takasaki - Daiichi Sankyo Company, Limited - Executive Officer and Head of R&D Division [Interpreted] Takasaki would like to respond. First of all, our unique cationic lipid, we think it has a very high efficiency in the delivery of messenger RNA. And also, the lipid composition ratio and also the ratio of messenger RNA, we have already established these ratios. And we are now discussing the way of mass production right now. Therefore, we have high expectations about its efficacy and the effectiveness. But with regards to the antigen, please allow us to refrain from disclosing. Tatsuyuki Arai - BofA Merrill Lynch, Research Division - Junior Analyst [Interpreted] Arai from BofA Securities. We are behind. So I would like to briefly ask 2 questions with regards to DS-1062. And what you are planning to develop this in first-line lung cancer settings? And what kind of milestones you need to achieve to enable your development of first-line lung cancer indication? And this is my first question. And secondly, about the difference compared to the Trodelvy from Gilead. They also developed -- they developed the compound in lung cancer, developing this in lung cancer. And they also have data of about 20% response rate. And I understand that DS-1062 has a different structure compared to Trodelvy. But based on the current available data, how much expectation do you have about DS-1062, vis-a-vis Trodelvy? Unidentified Participant [Interpreted] Manabe-san would like to ask Antoine to respond. Antoine Yver - Daiichi Sankyo Company, Limited - Global Head of R&D Oncology Thank you. So I would answer the second question first. Our belief is that the DXd technology is unique in allowing for durability of treatment. We've proven that multiple times, not only with 8201, but with our other clinical-stage assets, but the most important effect of this technology is how stable it is in the blood, how high potency with biosimilar it is in the tumor and how little systemic toxicity there is. And versus Trodelvy, for instance, where the drug is relatively unstable, must be administered day 1 and day 8, and creates a safety profile, which is closer to that of chemotherapy with GI toxicity, neutropenia, febrile neutropenia, death by neutropenic infection. We have, with 1062, a construct, which we believe is best-in-class and primarily with duration of response. I will let the translator and come back to the first question. With respect to the second -- to the first question, the milestone to go first-line is simply to have a safe combination with an IO region. We have an active collaboration with Merck, and we have started the TROPION-Lung02 on an accelerated schedule because we've proven with levo and DS-8201 that the combination of DXD and immune checkpoint is safe, in particular, in liver and in lung toxicity. So we feel comfortable to have an accelerated testing of the DS-1062 and pembrolizumab combination in the TROPION-Lung02. And as soon as we have enough safety evidence, we will move in first line. We are actively discussing with Merck the detail of that extended collaboration for these particular study and indication. 17 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 15, 2020 / 10:00AM, 4568.T - Daiichi Sankyo Co Ltd R&D Day Yo Mizuno - Tokio Marine Asset Management Co., Ltd., Research Division - Analyst [Interpreted] Mizuno from Tokio Marine Asset Management speaking. And I'd like to briefly ask 2 questions. First, about DS-8201 on its pan-tumor study. And I think this study can be passed to approval regardless of the organs with HER2 positive -- positivity. So what kind of results would be necessary to use it as a path to approval? And that's my first question. And my second question is about the muscular dystrophy. You are having the data on the first drug for this indication, EMD, and you are also developing follow-on compounds as well. And do you need the success of the first drug to proceed with the follow-on compound development, I'd like to confirm. Unidentified Participant [Interpreted] Manabe-san would want Antoine to answer the first question and want Takasaki-san to respond to the second question. Antoine Yver - Daiichi Sankyo Company, Limited - Global Head of R&D Oncology The pan-tumor HER2 is an important study, which will give us initial evidence of activity across different tumor types with less frequency of HER2 expression or HER2 mutation. To have an indication regardless of the tumor requires that we select the patient on the biology, which is unique and similar across all of these different tumor types. So far, HER2 expression by IHC has not met this criteria. We have discovered that the typical IHC for HER2, in some cases, identifies antigen, which are not HER2 antigen. And we are creating the next generation of test. So we may or may not be able, in the near future, to have a test which is valued across all tumors. We are actively looking with different major collaborators to define which test. Meanwhile, we are conducting the pan-tumor assessment and keeping the tumor blocks for future testing. Wataru Takasaki - Daiichi Sankyo Company, Limited - Executive Officer and Head of R&D Division [Interpreted] Takasaki would like to respond to the second question about 5141. Because of its action it seems to have on cardiomyocytes, so we are having high expectations on this project. And by the end of this month, we will have top line results. And with regards to the so-called follow-on projects, they're using the same ENA technology, but the sites of shipping is different for these follow-on projects. And we are also beginning to observe nonclinical profiles as well. So regardless of the outcome of the status of the development of 5141, we'd like to continue promoting R&D for the follow-on projects as well. Seiji Wakao - JPMorgan Chase & Co, Research Division - VP [Interpreted] Wakao from JPMorgan speaking. I only have one question about 8201. And I'd like to ask you about the level of your expectations about the adjuvant with DS-8201, if you're able to comment. And you are demonstrating high efficacy and durability of effect. And also, the manageable ILD profile. And I'm sure that you are having higher expectations for the first-line settings. And can we apply these features also to the adjuvant as well? And compared to the terminal cancer patients, these patients in those settings still have some physical stamina. So do you think that you can have high expectations? Or if any, you still have to look carefully at the adjuvant? Any particular element, if any. Unidentified Participant [Interpreted] Manabe-san would like Antoine to respond. 18 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 15, 2020 / 10:00AM, 4568.T - Daiichi Sankyo Co Ltd R&D Day Antoine Yver - Daiichi Sankyo Company, Limited - Global Head of R&D Oncology So I'm glad you asked this question. DESTINY-Breast05, which is described on Slide 30, is really an exciting study for Daiichi Sankyo. This is a study which is starting just 1 year or less than 1 year after the first approval. All the major world group in breast cancer collaborated with us for the past 12 months to design and launch this study. And we are really excited because this is a head-to-head study versus T-DM1, where we absolutely believe DS-8201 to be substantially superior to T-DM1. T-DM1 has proven a role in the adjuvant setting or post neoadjuvant, to be technically correct. And what this particular study, where we will compare with T-DM1 is on the 60% to 70% of patients, who do not do very well in the post neoadjuvant setting with T-DM1. And we're really very confident that 8201 will substantially improve the benefit for patients in this particular setting. So it's an extremely exciting study, and we have very high expectation on this study. Operator So it concludes the Daiichi Sankyo's R&D Day. Thank you for your participation today. [Portions of this transcript that are marked [Interpreted] were spoken by an interpreter present on the live call.] DISCLAIMER Refinitiv reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes. In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized. THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES REFINITIV OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS. 2020, Refinitiv. All Rights Reserved. 13537465-2020-12-16T17:35:35.543 19 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 15, 2020 / 10:00AM, 4568.T - Daiichi Sankyo Co Ltd R&D Day
REFINITIV STREETEVENTS EDITED TRANSCRIPT USB.N - U.S. Bancorp at Goldman Sachs Financial Services Conference (Virtual) EVENT DATE/TIME: DECEMBER 09, 2020 / 3:40PM GMT REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS Andrew Cecere U.S. Bancorp - Chairman, President & CEO Terrance R. Dolan U.S. Bancorp - Vice Chairman & CFO CONFERENCE CALL PARTICIPANTS Richard Nigel Ramsden Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - MD PRESENTATION Richard Nigel Ramsden - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - MD Okay. So I'm delighted to introduce our next presenters, who are Andy Cecere, Chairman and CEO of U.S. Bancorp; and Terry Dolan, who is the CFO. Between the two of them, they have almost 6 decades of experience at USB. And they are regular presenters at this conference, and we genuinely appreciate you coming back every year to update us on the strategy and on the progress that you've made. Andy and Terry are going to give a brief presentation, and then they'll join me for a fireside chat. So Andy and Terry, over to you. Andrew Cecere - U.S. Bancorp - Chairman, President & CEO Great. Thank you, and good morning, everyone. Thank you, Richard, for that kind introduction. It's good to see you. As you said, we're going to give just a brief commentary on the company's overall strategies and initiatives, then Terry will give an update on the quarter. And then we'll sit down and go through your questions. On Page 2, I want to remind you that I may be referring to some forward-looking statements, so I refer you to the safe harbor statement for your information. I know a lot of you know the company, but I just want to provide a brief overview on Page 3. The way we think about the company, just over $540 billion in assets and a market cap of $68 billion. And the way we think about how we serve our customers is on the left, in the red, you'll see where we have our branches and ATMs across 26 states, having entered our 26th state just last year in Charlotte, North Carolina with what we're calling our branch-light, digital-first strategy. I will note that we do have customers across all 50 states with credit card, auto and mortgage loans. In the middle, in the light blue, you'll see our Corporate and Commercial, as well as our Wealth Management and Institutional Services businesses, where we serve customers across the country. And then finally, on the right in the dark blue, we have 3 international business lines: Elavon merchant processing, Corporate Trust as well as Fund Services. Page 4, you'll see that we are the fifth largest bank in the country. And it's interesting. We're the largest non-GSIB, which gives us some advantages from a capital standpoint as well as a business regulatory standpoint. You'll also notice from this chart that we are more valuable than we are big in terms of if you compare the other bank right above us in both, you will see, we're about 1/4 of the size on size, but about half as much in terms of value. And that's a function of a couple of things, which I'll start with the business mix, which is on Slide 5. We have 4 very simple businesses. On the left, you'll see Consumer and Business Banking, which is our traditional banking business with about 42% of our revenue, and Corporate and Commercial, about 20%. So 62% common across most banks. But on the right, you'll see a couple of unique businesses. 1/4 of our revenue stream comes from Payment Services, which is a very capital-efficient, a valuable business to us and very important in this environment as well. And finally, as I talked about, Wealth Management and Investment Services, 2 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 09, 2020 / 3:40PM, USB.N - U.S. Bancorp at Goldman Sachs Financial Services Conference (Virtual) also pretty unique and a very large presence in Corporate Trust. This balance helps us because different businesses perform differently in different cycles and particularly the fee components are very valuable in a low interest rate environment like we're in today. The second reason for that valuation is on Page 6, which is our long history of industry-leading returns. You see this over a 5-, 10- and 15-year period where we have the leading ROE against the peer group, which are basically the top 10 banks in the country. And if you go to Slide 7, you'll see that is really driven by 2 things. It's not just the bottom line is the components of it. We have had the superior PPNR, pre-provision net revenue, across those same time frames as well as a less volatile charge-off rating. So in a normal environment, our charge-off rate is just a bit higher because we have a higher-than-normal credit card portfolio. But you'll see from this chart that when the challenging times come, we actually outperform our peer group in terms of having lower volatility, and that goes to our credit quality process. As we think about the future, we're focused on 3 things: innovation, optimization and superior returns. And I'm going to talk about each of them just for a minute. So first of all, on Slide 9. If anything has accelerated in this environment, it's the drive to digital. Consumer behaviors, I think, have advanced years in just a matter of months. And right now, over 3/4 of transactions are occurring digitally, over 50% of our sales are digital. And we're very focused on that, and we've been talking about that, Richard, actually, for the last couple of years in terms of our focus in digital investments, and it's paying off very well in this environment. The second component, on Page 10, is this concept of a payments ecosystem. We talk a lot about that, but I talked about the 25% of the pie that's payments. One of our key objectives and initiatives is around combining that into the banking slice of the pie so that we have a complete ecosystem of capabilities and services to offer customers, businesses, individuals and corporations a set of -- a packaged set of products that help them run their business, commerce, money movement and the like. And weaving that together is critically important in our view in terms of the success of the future. On Slide 11, I have a couple of examples of this, merchant Everyday Funding and Payee Choice. Again, examples of creating an opportunity of weaving together payments with banking to solve our customers' problems. On Page 12, I talked about innovation. And innovation and optimization go sort of hand-in-hand in my view. The opportunity to optimize allows more for investment, which allows you to optimize in sort of a virtuous circle. About 18 months ago, we announced that we were planning on closing about 10% to 15% of our branches. And that was really a function of customer behavior, as I talked about, most transactions now occurring in a digital way. About 2 or 3 months ago, we announced that we're actually going to close an additional 15%. So in total, we will have a plan to close, by early in 2021, about 25% of our branches. Now branches are still important. But they're going to be less of a place where people go for transactions and more for advice and consultation. Therefore, they don't need to be as many, and they don't need to be as large. And that offers us opportunity in terms of optimization of physical assets. The other thing we've talked about is this concept of expanding through partnerships. And an example on this page is State Farm, where we have an alliance able to work with 19,000 State Farm agents and million customers to offer our banking products through their network. And it's a great example of really leveraging the payments, the branch network that we have through this branch-light concept. So that is our focus from the perspective of how we're thinking about this environment. And if I were going to simplify it on Page 13, we are trying to manage for the long term while delivering near-term results as we think about the future. And I want to ask Terry just to give an update on the quarter. In fact, we're just a few weeks from the end of the quarter, I thought it would be helpful. Terry? Terrance R. Dolan - U.S. Bancorp - Vice Chairman & CFO Yes. Thank you very much, Andy, and good morning to everybody. So our outlook in the fourth quarter is very much aligned with the guidance that we gave during the third quarter earnings call. On our third quarter earnings call, we said we expected taxable equivalent net interest income 3 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 09, 2020 / 3:40PM, USB.N - U.S. Bancorp at Goldman Sachs Financial Services Conference (Virtual) to be flat to down a little in the fourth quarter. With the premium amortization coming in a little higher due to continued strong refinancing activity, net interest income is likely to be down a little in the fourth quarter compared to the third quarter. And as you know, with Premium amortization, it tends to peak a quarter or 2 after refinancings peak. And so as we think about it, we think this is more temporary, and it will start to come down as we look into the early 2021. In the third quarter, one of the things we talked about is that our cash balances were a little lower. And as a result, net interest margin was about 6 basis points higher than what we had anticipated. If you recall, at the beginning of the fourth quarter, we acquired about $10 billion of deposits from State Farm, which came on our balance sheet. And as a result, cash balances have increased. And so we expect net interest margin to be down by a similar amount to the 6 basis points that we saw in the third quarter, and that will be coming down. When we look at fee income, we expect mortgage banking revenue continue to be strong, but to be -- to decline somewhat from the third quarter, both on a seasonal basis and because of the refinancing trends. We would expect our payments revenue -- payments revenues to be adversely affected on a year-over-year basis, similar to what it has been in the past, because of the lower consumer spend and business spend activities. However, I would say that U.S. volumes continue to improve on the -- maybe not quite at the same trajectory or the pace that we saw in the third quarter because it has slowed a little bit. The European volumes in our merchant processing business are a little bit under pressure because of the lockdowns that have occurred in the European areas. When we think about expenses, we continue to expect noninterest expenses to be relatively stable compared to the third quarter of 2020. And from a credit standpoint, we expect the increase in net charge-offs and nonperforming assets to moderate in the fourth quarter. With regard to the reserve, credit quality trends have been more favorable than maybe what we had projected at the end of the third quarter. We don't expect any further reserve build in the fourth quarter, but I wouldn't expect a reserve release in the fourth quarter. Yes, I think there's just too many uncertainties that still continue to exist out there at this particular point in time. And then finally, from a tax perspective, on a full year basis, we continue to expect the taxable equivalent rate to be about 19%. And again, that's the taxable equivalent tax rate being about 19%. So with that, Richard, I'll turn it back to you. QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS Richard Nigel Ramsden - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - MD Okay. Thank you. That's a very helpful update. So Andy, I thought I'd start off with a bigger picture question, which is -- look, 2020 has been an extraordinary year in a lot of different ways. When you reflect on 2020, how do you think USB performed? And what have you learned, given that this is really the first real-world stress test that we've had since the global financial crisis in 2008? Andrew Cecere - U.S. Bancorp - Chairman, President & CEO Sure. Thanks, Richard. So first of all, I think if I reflect on the year, we've helped a lot of customers. We had over 100,000 PPP loans. We've had a number of customers that we helped through forbearance, large companies that we extended credit to when they needed it. So our ability to help customers in this environment is what stands out. And our employees doing it day-to-day is also a big component of it. I think the other thing that stood out is that a couple of years ago, we had this tremendous focus on digital and the migration and the changes in consumer behaviors. And as I mentioned in my prepared remarks, that has, if anything, accelerated greatly. So those investments that we've made and our focus on that is critically important. We have a large payments business, so it's a good window into what's going on in the economy. And as we all know, in the March, April time frame, there was a severe decline across all spending categories. And what's interesting to see is that it's come back in most categories, back to pre-COVID 4 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 09, 2020 / 3:40PM, USB.N - U.S. Bancorp at Goldman Sachs Financial Services Conference (Virtual) levels, with the exception of those industries that you would expect: airlines, hotels, travel and entertainment. So those are continuing to be pressure. But for the other parts of the economy, the spend is almost back to where we were. And it's also interesting that what we're seeing, credit is better than you would expect given the macroeconomic factors that we see. But I do think it's a K recovery. There are a number of companies and corporations and individuals who are doing very well. But at the same time, there are also a number of consumers and small businesses that are very much struggling in this environment. So we would agree that another stimulus would be very helpful to continue that bridge until we get to a more stable environment. And finally, Richard, one of my key observations is the value of a diversified business model. If you step back and you look at this year, having a set of businesses that impact -- that are impacted differently in low interest rate environments and still can perform like our mortgage and our Corporate Trust business and our Commercial Products business and having that diversity between fees and net interest income. Those things are all very beneficial in turbulent times. Richard Nigel Ramsden - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - MD Okay. That's very helpful. So you've been one of the more consistent underwriters over the cycles. And I actually think that's something that investors really like about you. What have you learned from a risk perspective this year? And again, if you reflect on 2020, do you think you've got the right balance in terms of risk reward across your portfolios? Terrance R. Dolan - U.S. Bancorp - Vice Chairman & CFO Yes, Richard, let me take that. When you think about our philosophy, I guess, if you will, from a credit perspective, there's really kind of a couple of different principles that we think about. And that is, from an underwriting perspective, we have consistent underwriting and we think about it through the cycle. So we don't expand our credit box in good times and then shrink it when we hit the more difficult time. We try to be very consistent. I think that as a result of that, we see consistent performance from a credit perspective even in challenging times. The second principle is really around being very proactive in terms of how we think about managing the portfolio. When the pandemic hit, as an example, those at-risk industries, we were very proactive in terms of looking at the credit quality, looking at risk ratings, et cetera. When you think about underwriting, what that means is that we have a very well-diversified portfolio. We have a portfolio that focuses on -- in the consumer side, it's a prime -- super prime sort of lending. On the commercial side, it tends to be focused around investment-grade type of companies. Leverage lending is very limited. And when you think about, for example, the Commercial Real Estate portfolio, our loan to values are pretty conservative at about 62%. So it's something that we think about really through that cycle. And as you know, one of the things in the Commercial Real Estate area, we've been shrinking or holding that down really for about the last 4 years. And then when we think about, from a proactive sort of management perspective, we were pretty proactive in terms of the downgrades of those at-risk sectors or industries early in the -- even in the first quarter so that we could make sure that we had a strong focus around those and working those issues pretty quickly. So we feel like we're very well positioned when we think about it from a credit perspective, and we're going to weather the storm pretty well. Richard Nigel Ramsden - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - MD I mean, from your -- since we're on the subject, from your perspective, do you think that the market is pricing credit risk in a rational manner? And I guess the backdrop is obviously, QE has not just impacted interest rates, it's also impacted credit spreads. So given everything that you can see and given your outlook, how do you think about the attractiveness of risk versus return across some of your key lending portfolios today? 5 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 09, 2020 / 3:40PM, USB.N - U.S. Bancorp at Goldman Sachs Financial Services Conference (Virtual) Terrance R. Dolan - U.S. Bancorp - Vice Chairman & CFO Yes, Richard, that's a great question. So when we end up looking at the current pricing, we've actually seen it to be pretty rational in terms of the pricing within the -- in the marketplace relative to the risk in this particular environment. So I think that's been pretty well balanced. In fact, on the loan side of the equation, we've seen spreads widen during this particular point in time, which is exactly what you would expect to see. That being said, we know that loan growth is challenging at this particular point in time. It's fairly sluggish. And the longer that continues to take to come back, I think you're going to see more competition as we get into 2021 from a pricing standpoint. Richard Nigel Ramsden - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - MD Okay. That's very helpful. So maybe, Andy, a couple of questions for you. So you touched a little bit on your priorities. Maybe you could expand on those a little bit and talk about what you would like to achieve going into 2021 and beyond. And then, as really kind of an adjunct question, there's obviously a lot of consolidation that is taking place in the industry. And I guess one of the themes from this conference is that a lot of people are expecting that not just to continue, but to accelerate. So perhaps you can also touch on how your thought process around organic versus inorganic growth has evolved and what you think some of this consolidation that's happening around you means for USB? Andrew Cecere - U.S. Bancorp - Chairman, President & CEO Sure, Richard. So from a priority standpoint first. As I mentioned, a couple of years ago, we said we need to focus on digital. The customer -- consumer behaviors are changing in that manner. And as I mentioned, if anything, it's accelerated. So a very focused effort on making sure that our products and services and transaction capabilities can be done in a digital channel is a high priority. We've made a lot of progress, and that will continue to be an area that we're very focused on. The second is this concept of the payments ecosystem. One of the benefits of having a payments business is also combining it with the banking business. Because oftentimes, all their customers, if it's a payments customer, they need banking. If it's a banking customer, they need payments. So weaving together those capabilities to help them run their business is a second priority. And then thirdly is this concept of investment and optimization and making sure that we're optimizing sort of the core so that we can continue to invest in the future. And that's exactly what we're doing with optimizing the branch system, thinking about the physical assets overall, thinking about different opportunities. And it's interesting because as you innovate and as you invest, you also improve your efficiency, what we call below the glass, which has opportunities for more efficiency. So that's why I talk about this circle. In terms of organic versus M&A as we've talked about, scale is important, and it will continue to be more important. And there are new entrants into the financial services space, which also increase the speed of change. And so I believe we're focused on the right things. And if we add up M&A opportunities and fintech capabilities or building scale in geographies and it was meaningful, it was financially appropriate and culturally a fit, we would look at them. Richard Nigel Ramsden - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - MD Okay. I mean, you talked about the fact that there's benefits to the fact that you're large, but you're just below the GSIB category. How would you think about a transaction that potentially moves you above that threshold in terms of risk versus what it would add versus what it would cost? Andrew Cecere - U.S. Bancorp - Chairman, President & CEO Yes. So we are spending about $2.5 billion in tech investment on an annual basis. So we have a really good scale as we sit today across the business lines that we -- and the businesses and the customers that we serve. So it's not like we need to get to that GSIB functions, and there's pros and cons 6 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 09, 2020 / 3:40PM, USB.N - U.S. Bancorp at Goldman Sachs Financial Services Conference (Virtual) with that. So again, I think as we think about it, it's about financially appropriate, the cultural fit as well as the capabilities we'd be building and the scale. And there are trade-offs. When you get to a GSIB level, there's more capital implications and regulatory implications that occur. So I'm not so much thinking about getting into the GSIB category, but thinking about those core capabilities around scale and geographic presence and customer acquisition. Richard Nigel Ramsden - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - MD So let's dig a little bit deeper into the digital strategy. And I think one of the things that some of your competitors have talked about is that digital-only customers are lower revenue-generating than branch-based customers. As your digital strategy has evolved, as it's grown, what are you learning about the difference between branch versus digitally-acquired customers? And have you seen much of a difference so far? Andrew Cecere - U.S. Bancorp - Chairman, President & CEO Yes, that's a good question and a good observation. So what I would say is a digital-only customer, and we actually did some tests of entering new markets in a digital-only fashion, tends to be a lower revenue producer, also a higher attrition level customer. I think the optimal customer is that customer who uses all the channels. And that's why we talk about entering in this branch-light, digital strategy that they're actually able to use all the channels, that they're connected and that they are working with the bank across many different ways. And those types of customers are the best customers. And as we enter new markets like Charlotte and other opportunities, we're going to focus on this combination because I believe that branches are still important, as I talked about, and it's this great combination of digital capabilities but human interaction. And that combination, I think, you get the best customers and you actually get the best service. Richard Nigel Ramsden - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - MD So maybe we can talk a little bit about the branch network and how that's evolved. And you talked about what you've done, the incremental 15% of branch closures. I mean, if you think longer term, how do you think the branch strategy is going to evolve? And you also have been creative in terms of what you've done. I think State Farm is a really, really good example of that. I mean, what are the prospects of similar transactions like that? And perhaps you can talk through some of the benefits versus maybe some of the things that you lose through those types of joint ventures or transactions. Terrance R. Dolan - U.S. Bancorp - Vice Chairman & CFO So first on the brand structure. Tim's done a terrific job in sort of evolving the branch from a place you go for transactions to a place you go for advice and counsel. And that reflects the people you have in the branch, what the branch looks like, and also the process of interacting with the branch with appointments and really seeking advice and counsel. And really, sometimes it's technology advice as well on how to use some of the digital capabilities. So as we think about the branch of the future, which we're well on our way to achieving, is it's an appointment, advice, counsel, direction. And that, combined with the digital channels, I think, is a real key to success. On the alliances, the alliances offer the ability to expand your distribution network in step functions, broadly across the United States with partners who think the same way you do. That's the positive. Now there's a revenue-sharing that occurs with that, but it's still a very profitable transaction, and it's also a way for us to extend our capabilities to a broader customer base. So in my view, it's a great customer acquisition tool. And I would expect us to continue to look at opportunities like State Farm across the market. 7 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 09, 2020 / 3:40PM, USB.N - U.S. Bancorp at Goldman Sachs Financial Services Conference (Virtual) Richard Nigel Ramsden - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - MD So you talked about reinvesting some of the savings from branch closures into tech initiatives. Can you talk through your priorities in terms of your tech budget today? Talk about how that's evolved. And maybe even talk about the overall trajectory for tech spending, just given everything you're seeing in terms of this more rapid adoption of digital technologies. Terrance R. Dolan - U.S. Bancorp - Vice Chairman & CFO Yes. I was just going to say, Andy mentioned the fact that if you end up looking at our tech spend, it's about $2.5 billion, about half of that is on the capital expenditure side, and half of that is kind of business as usual, OpEx. And our areas of focus are very consistent with what Andy talked about in terms of our strategy and our priorities. So we end up looking at where we are investing. We're heavily investing in digital and digital capabilities and focusing on how we can use that, both to expand revenue in terms of customer acquisition, but also thinking about how we make our business simpler and better, if you will, and enables us to be able to get optimization in the business. The other area that we have been making some pretty significant investment ties into our payments strategy. Most recently, we made a nice acquisition with talech as well as CenPOS. And each of those brings a little bit of a different capability. talech, as an example, really will enable us to be able to more effectively link our banking products and services to our payments, sort of capabilities similar to what you're seeing in other areas of the competitive sort of landscape. And we think that, that will enable us to be -- have kind of a game changer as we think about small, middle and middle market sort of businesses and consumers as well. The third area that I would say is really around the whole B2B space. And we think about real-time payments and the importance of that on the commercial side of the equation, and that is an area where we think is going to continue to accelerate. We want to be on the front end of that in order for us to be able to drive market share in that space as physical checks convert to more of an electronic sort of focus. And then I think a really -- a big part of it is how do we end up simplifying and making for our -- for all of our customers more convenient, easier-to-do business with U.S. Bank. And I think that all those things kind of help to drive performance in the future. And then finally, data analytics, because data analytics links with your digital strategy in providing smarter interactions from a customer standpoint on both sides of the equation. So... Richard Nigel Ramsden - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - MD Okay. So maybe we can talk a little bit about operating leverage. It's obviously important driver for share price outperformance. It's obviously something that shareholders are very focused on. And I appreciate that there's a lot of uncertainty around the revenue environment heading into next year. So perhaps we can talk a little bit about where you see the greatest opportunities in terms of driving efficiencies within your franchise from here. And I think one of the questions that is coming up more and more is it looks as if the banking and industry seamlessly moved 90% plus of their employees to work from home. As you digest what you've learned from that, has that highlighted other areas of potential efficiencies that you wouldn't have thought about a year ago? And how much of this do you think will stick as the economy starts to normalize? Andrew Cecere - U.S. Bancorp - Chairman, President & CEO Yes, a couple of great questions there, Richard. And obviously, it's kind of built into our DNA to really focus on managing expenses as effectively as we can. And that continues to be a strong focus. And in fact, it kind of increases in urgency because of the revenue environment. If you think about -- our goal is really to kind of hold expenses flat in this particular environment while continuing to make the level of investment that we have 8 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 09, 2020 / 3:40PM, USB.N - U.S. Bancorp at Goldman Sachs Financial Services Conference (Virtual) historically been making in the things that I just talked about. Clearly, I think when we think about branch optimization, there is going to continue to be things that we will take a look at from that particular perspective as we look in the future, and we see digital adoption occurring. To your point about work from home, the work from home environment allows us to really kind of step back and rethink our office footprint and smaller locations to identify whether or not there's opportunity there. And I think all of corporate America is really kind of going to be going through that. And then I do think the digital investments that we are making is going to start to create a wedge when we think about operating leverage. It is going to be a game changer, I think, with respect to customer acquisition in the future. And we've seen some very nice trends, both in terms of deposit acquisition as well as lending acquisition. But as that revenue grows, it also gives us the opportunity to be able to optimize back office, operations and all sorts of things as you go to more of a straight-through sort of processing and digitize a lot of those capabilities. So I do think that there's a lot of different opportunities for us to think about. Richard Nigel Ramsden - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - MD Okay. That's very helpful. So maybe we can talk a little bit about the loan demand picture and maybe link it to NII for next year. And a couple of questions here, I guess, which is, it does seem as if the recent shutdown has actually impacted corporate loan demand and the willingness for corporates to invest. Is your sense that if we get more of a V-shaped economic recovery, that loan demand will come back in the second half of next year or maybe even earlier depending on the rollout of the vaccine? And then secondly, can you talk a little bit about how you're thinking through just the management of the balance sheet, just given the significant growth in deposits and given where interest rate structures currently are? Andrew Cecere - U.S. Bancorp - Chairman, President & CEO Yes. A couple of great questions. First of all, on the loan side, we are seeing pretty strong loan demand in some of the consumer categories. So if you think about our auto businesses, our auto lending, retail leasing, et cetera, as well as the mortgage -- residential mortgage loan categories, those have actually seen some pretty strong growth even through this cycle. And we would expect that to continue for some period of time. Credit card volume has been a little bit more challenged because consumer spend has been at lower levels. And I think that, that trend probably continues for some period of time until consumer confidence and business spend starts to pick up. And I think that consumer confidence, consumer spend is really kind of the bleeding edge of starting to see growth on the loan side with respect to the commercial side of the equation. When you end up looking at 2021, I think that it tends to be a little bit sluggish in the first half of the year and starting to accelerate in the second half of the year. As consumer confidence starts to come back, I think that the businesses will have to start to replenish some of their inventories. And I think you're going to see business spend associated with that. And as that all starts to accelerate, you're going to see more focus around longer term sort of business investment. The other thing that we're watching is just green shoots with respect to M&A activity. You're starting to see a little bit more of that, at least on the horizon. And I think that, that helps to bode well especially for the second half of the year because it takes a little bit of time for that to develop. Terrance R. Dolan - U.S. Bancorp - Vice Chairman & CFO Go ahead, Richard. 9 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 09, 2020 / 3:40PM, USB.N - U.S. Bancorp at Goldman Sachs Financial Services Conference (Virtual) Richard Nigel Ramsden - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - MD No, no. Go ahead. No, please continue. Terrance R. Dolan - U.S. Bancorp - Vice Chairman & CFO Well, I was just going to say, from a balance sheet management perspective, during this time, so you have a little sluggish loan growth that we talked about, but I think that, that does start to accelerate. In 2021, we still expect deposit inflows to be pretty strong. And so what we will likely see is more investment on the investment security side of the equation as well as cash balances. Although we think that from a liquidity standpoint, we're in a -- probably a pretty good position. The implications of that is that in terms of net interest income, I think that it gives us growth, but probably more so as we get into -- as 2021 starts to develop. From an investment securities portfolio perspective, we're really looking at the yield curve. Our expectation is that it does start to steepen as you kind of get later in the year and consumer spend starts to kind of help that. But our overall expectation is interest rates being low for a long period of time. So it's going to be challenging from a revenue point of view for the entire industry. Richard Nigel Ramsden - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - MD So I guess, Andy, this is a question for you and as a follow-up, which is if we're going to be in this very low interest rate environment for a protracted period of time, do you think the industry will go back and start thinking through pricing structures around consumer products? So do you think that some of the lost net interest income could actually get recouped in the form of fees through adjustments to the way in which the value proposition is presented to customers on the retail side in particular? Andrew Cecere - U.S. Bancorp - Chairman, President & CEO Yes. Yes, I do, Richard. I do think that as an industry, and certainly, we're thinking about different ways of creating value-added services and packaging in a way that adds value, separate and distinct from the traditional net interest margin. You could think of subscription services or the like, but really packed together and gets back to that business banking, leaving together payments and banking and thinking about a service that we could provide that adds value to the customer in terms of running their business, their commerce and their money movement. And I do think we're thinking about different ways of packaging that pricing in value-added services, for sure. Richard Nigel Ramsden - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - MD Okay. Thanks. So I think we have time for one last question, and there's a few questions here on the capital position of the bank, the excess capital and how you're thinking about capital returns and the trajectory for capital returns. So I think, on our math at least, I think you've got almost $10 billion of excess capital. If the Fed was to lift the moratorium on buybacks, how active would you want to be in terms of returning capital through buybacks? And how are you thinking about dividends, dividend payout ratios, just again, given the uncertainty headed into next year? Andrew Cecere - U.S. Bancorp - Chairman, President & CEO So given our returns and where we are, so we -- as you know, we target 8.5% to 9% Tier 1 -- common equity Tier 1. We're currently above 9% today, but we're focusing at operating in that 9% range. We also have articulated our capital return goal of 65% to 85% of our bottom line, about half in dividends and about half in buybacks. So we do have capacity for additional buybacks, but as we all are, we're awaiting Fed guidance. 10 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 09, 2020 / 3:40PM, USB.N - U.S. Bancorp at Goldman Sachs Financial Services Conference (Virtual) Richard Nigel Ramsden - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - MD Okay. So I think with that, we're out of time. So thank you very, very much for joining us. We would love to see you again next year, would love to see you in person. And hopefully, we're going to see you in Downtown Manhattan in December of 2021. But thank you very much. Andrew Cecere - U.S. Bancorp - Chairman, President & CEO Sounds good. Thanks, Richard. Terrance R. Dolan - U.S. Bancorp - Vice Chairman & CFO Thanks, Richard. DISCLAIMER Refinitiv reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes. In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized. THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES REFINITIV OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS. 2020, Refinitiv. All Rights Reserved. 13537466-2020-12-10T16:40:27.203 11 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 09, 2020 / 3:40PM, USB.N - U.S. Bancorp at Goldman Sachs Financial Services Conference (Virtual)
REFINITIV STREETEVENTS EDITED TRANSCRIPT MMMB.PK - Q3 2021 MamaMancini's Holdings Inc Earnings Call EVENT DATE/TIME: DECEMBER 14, 2020 / 9:30PM GMT REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS Carl T. Wolf MamaMancini's Holdings, Inc. - Chairman & CEO Lawrence Morgenstein MamaMancini's Holdings, Inc. - CFO Matthew I. Brown MamaMancini's Holdings, Inc. - President, COO & Director CONFERENCE CALL PARTICIPANTS Howard Allen Halpern Taglich Brothers, Inc., Research Division - Senior Equity Analyst James M. Bogin Legend Capital Management LLC - Founder Jeffrey Kobylarz Diamond Bridge Capital, L.P - Analyst Greg Falesnik MZ Group North America - MD PRESENTATION Operator Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for standing by. Welcome to MamaMancini's Third Quarter 2021 Earnings Conference Call. (Operator Instructions) This conference is being recorded today, December 14, 2020, and earnings press release accompanying this conference call was issued at the close of market today. On our call today is MamaMancini's Chairman and CEO, Carl Wolf; President and COO, Matthew Brown; CFO, Larry Morgenstein; and Greg Falesnik, CEO of MZ North America, MamaMancini's Investor Relations firm. I would now like to turn the conference over to Greg to read a disclaimer about forward-looking statements. Greg Falesnik - MZ Group North America - MD Thank you, operator. Before we get started, I'll read a disclaimer about forward-looking statements. This conference call may contain, in addition to historical information, forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws Regarding MamaMancini's. Forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements that express the company's intentions, beliefs, expectations, strategies, predictions or any other statements related to its future earnings activities, events or conditions. These statements are based on current expectations, estimates and projections about the company's business based in part on assumptions made by management. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict. Therefore, actual outcomes and results may vary and are likely to differ materially from what is expressed or forecasted in the forward-looking statements due to numerous factors discussed from time to time in this report and other documents, which the company files with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. In addition, such statements could be affected by risks and uncertainties related to factors beyond the company's control. Matters that may cause actual results to differ materially from those in forward-looking statements include among other factors, the loss of key management personnel, availability of capital and any major litigation regarding the company. In addition, this conference call contains time-sensitive information that reflects management's best analysis only as of the date and time of this conference call. The company does not undertake any obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements to reflect future events, information or circumstances that arise after the date of this conference call. At this time, I'd like to turn the call over to Carl Wolf, the company's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. Carl, the floor is yours. 2 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 14, 2020 / 9:30PM, MMMB.PK - Q3 2021 MamaMancini's Holdings Inc Earnings Call Carl T. Wolf - MamaMancini's Holdings, Inc. - Chairman & CEO Thank you, Greg, and thank you, everyone, for joining us today. I'd like to welcome you to our third quarter 2021 financial results conference call. Third quarter of fiscal 2021 was a third quarter record, highlighted by revenue and net income growth as we aggressively market our products nationwide, as well as the expansion of our product line and fortification of our balance sheet. To that end, we're very pleased with our progress with sales increasing for the third quarter record of $9.9 million and net income increasing 80% to another third quarter record of $0.7 million. This growth was driven by new placements, effective merchandising and continued success of our multichannel marketing efforts. Sales were positive at the club store network and in packaged products, while sales in the fresh deli and hot bars were delayed due to COVID. They are beginning to recover nicely, and we expect to be back to normal levels in early 2021. We continue to see rapid growth in our pasta bowl line, which now approaches about 20% of our total volume. Overall sales and margins were positive. With business slowly returning back to normal, we announced new customer authorizations, both in terms of new locations and expansion of existing placements at several major nationwide retailers. We expect a number of new placements to occur as we enter 2021, continuing our sales momentum. Our activity in foodservice direct-to-consumer markets and exportation to Canada were temporarily halted due to COVID. We now are beginning this activity again and expect to see exciting progress in the near term. We expect a record fiscal year in sales and earnings. However, we caution that with today's continuing evolving macroeconomic landscape, accurately forecasting the future can be difficult. Our successful multi-pronged marketing efforts include radio campaign, social media efforts and continued work with QVC. I'd like to touch on a few of these now. We continue to see success in our SiriusXM radio advertising campaigns as evidenced by the launch of 6 campaigns in calendar 2020. We launched a major new 11 week campaign earlier this year. The SiriusXM platform distributed an estimated 4,000 MamaMancini's commercials on all major talk and news channels, reaching over 75 million consumers, an avenue which we have found is cost-effective way to drive sales across various geographic locations with current and new customers of our products. On the social media side of things, we continue to maintain a robust reach, engaging new customers and encouraging new purchases. To date, we have over 300,000 likes and continue to geo-target likely customers who live within 5 miles of specific retail locations. As an example, we are presently using this medium to successfully introduce our new pasta bowl at Publix Super Markets in the Southeast, which just rolled out from originally 350 stores to 1,200 stores at present. Our QVC efforts have been seeing record success as well with Dan Mancini's live pitches driving impressive sales on their platform. We have recently increased our on-air presence, notably and are seeing encouraging growth as a result. As many of you are aware, QVC is a large direct-to-consumer marketer and is available in over 100 million homes throughout the USA. We are pleased that QVC customers voted MamaMancini's products as #1 in 3 categories: Best Meatball, Best Plant Based Food of over 20 items and best condiment, spice or sauce categories during the 2020 QVC Customer Choice Food Awards. MamaMancini's Co-founder, Dan Mancini, accepted the award on behalf of the company. COVID-19 was a challenge for the company, but we were able to overcome and efficiently run our operations without pause. Fortunately, we were able to install safety measures significantly before our peers, which we believe helped mitigate the effects of the pandemic. We are very pleased with our overall cash position, a very positive cash flow and our net worth growth. We believe we would meet uplisting requirements on our balance sheet as a result. Our cash position and net worth position continues to grow substantially in November, and the last warrant redemptions occurred on November 19. We estimate that current shares outstanding at approximately $36 million with only 880,000 unredeemed management and board options. This is substantially below potential dilution expected. We currently estimate our cash position is close to $3 million, a current ratio of 2x and with 0 working capital debt. Finally, before handing the call off to Larry, I'd like to note that we have engaged, leading U.S. investment bank B. Riley Securities to assist in the exploration and evaluation of strategic alternatives for enhancing shareholder value. These alternatives could include, among others, the sale of the company, a strategic business acquisition, continued acquisition of the company's business plan or some combination of one or more of these possible alternatives. The process is progressing. While it's too early to comment on the direction we will take, I see several exciting potential opportunities for MamaMancini as we enter 2021. I'd now like to turn the call over to Larry Morgenstein, our Chief Financial Officer, to walk through some key financial details from the third quarter of 2021. Larry? 3 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 14, 2020 / 9:30PM, MMMB.PK - Q3 2021 MamaMancini's Holdings Inc Earnings Call Lawrence Morgenstein - MamaMancini's Holdings, Inc. - CFO Thank you, Carl. Revenue in the third quarter of 2021 increased to a third quarter record of $9.9 million compared to $9.3 million in the same year ago quarter. Revenue year-to-date increased 27% to a record $31.4 million as compared to $24.7 million in the same year ago period. Revenue growth was primarily a result of increased sales to new and existing customers, partially offset by COVID-19 which slowed new placements in the third quarter and are expected to resume new placements in the fourth quarter. Gross profit increased to $3.1 million in the third quarter of 2021 or 32% of total revenue as compared to $2.9 million or 31% of total revenue in the same year-ago quarter. Gross profit year-to-date increased to $10.1 million or 32% of total revenue as compared to $8 million or 32% of the total revenue in the same year ago period. Gross margins increased primarily as a result of ongoing efforts to improve plant operations and efficiencies, partially offset by temporary negative impact of higher beef pricing due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Operating expenses decreased to $2.3 million in the third quarter of 2021 as compared to $2.4 million in the same year ago quarter. Operating expenses year-to-date increased by 15% to $7.5 million as compared to the same year ago period. As a percentage of sales, operating expenses in the third quarter and year-to-date decreased from 26% to 24%. Operating expenses decreased primarily due to lower promotional expenses for product merchandising. Net income for the third quarter of 2021 grew significantly to $0.7 million or $0.02 per share as compared to a net income of $0.4 million or $0.01 per share in the same year ago quarter. Net income year-to-date totaled $2.4 million as compared to $1.1 million in the same year ago period. The net increase in net income was primarily attributed to increase in sales, reductions of operating expenses as a percentage of sales and a decrease in interest expense. Cash and cash equivalents as of October 31, 2020, was $1.8 million as compared to $0.4 million as of January 31, 2020. The increased cash balance as of October 31, 2020 benefited from $2.5 million in cash flow from operations fiscal year-to-date, partially offset by a paydown of debt as the company reduced its debt by 84% fiscal year-to-date. We do not anticipate raising additional capital and are confident that the cash on hand combined with our cash generated from operations each quarter will be sufficient to sustain operations as we grow. This completes my comments. And I'd now like to turn the call over to Matt Brown, our President and Chief Operating Officer. Matt? Matthew I. Brown - MamaMancini's Holdings, Inc. - President, COO & Director Thanks, Larry. Our operations performed admirably throughout the third quarter, contributing to the financial success of the company. We continue to be impressed with the day-to-day resilience of our staff who are committed during these times to our continuous improvement efforts in production planning, scheduling, and operational processes to improve efficiencies and manage the costs. Our scheduling efficiencies implemented during this quarter included staggered start times and spreading workday commitments, enabled us to manage overtime and well-deserved time off for some key staff, while gearing up for the busy Q4, now in progress. We are very encouraged to see the cost of raw material step down from the stratosphere during Q3, which contributed to the strong financial performance of our operations. In particular, beef prices, our largest expense by the end of the third quarter had returned to some sense of normalcy, down 28% from its high in May. We're keeping a close watch and actively managing our packaging material costs as the online retailers have placed heavy demands on the corrugated box industries threatening price increases and longer lead times. To this end, we have switched our corrugated suppliers, gaining price reductions and receiving on-demand inventory delivery 3 days per week while reducing working capital requirements. We are proceeding with a review of all of our supply pricing in an ongoing effort to reduce our costs with no impact on quality. Turning to our products. We continue to see expansion in demand for our family meal kits and individual pasta bowls. These products, which use a combination of our own manufactured products combined with delicious third-party pastas are produced and packaged efficiently in our plant, boosting our financial performance. We continue to see expansion in our meat loaf products in the marketplace and continued improvement on a path towards return to normal in our bulk deli and food bar and meatball products, whose demand has been impeded by COVID-19. The plant 4 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 14, 2020 / 9:30PM, MMMB.PK - Q3 2021 MamaMancini's Holdings Inc Earnings Call was very active in fulfilling demand for QVC in response to QVC's major promotion of all our meatball products, including a new recipe for our popular stuffed mozzarella meat ball and the introduction of our meat loaf and Spinach Lasagna Roll Ups products in the network. We are continuing new product rollouts in Q4 with the introduction of both a new sweet Italian sausage product which conveniently sold out just last week on QVC and an Italian dumpling pasta product, which is scheduled to premiere in January. Q3 began the rollout of new packing room equipment, which will continue throughout early Q4. Our new Shanklin wrapping machine has already impressed us moving our product 25% faster than our previous capacity on just day 3 of its operation. We anticipate accelerating improvements in capacity as remaining pieces of equipment, including automatic labelers and stronger conveyors are installed this month. These improvements will also provide the operation with cost savings of approximately $30,000 per month. Our annual safe quality audit or SQF audit, delayed by COVID-19 is now scheduled for the end of January 2021. We are looking forward to the audit and anticipate nothing less than exemplary scores as we continue to educate our employees on good manufacturing practices and OSHA regulations. COVID-19 has altered the way many manufacturers view additional safety measures these days. During Q3, we trained a cross-section of staff in first aid, CPR and automatic external defibrillator use and installed a defibrillator in the plant. We are continuing to move forward with the implementation of the robust ERP warehouse management and accounting system replacement to improve our reporting and planning capabilities to meet the demands of the future streamline electronic communications with our customers. We expect to go live in early fiscal year 2022. In summary, the plant continues to see record production numbers and labor efficiencies. We are responsibly investing in our equipment and our people and have established the capacity to manage our growing business. I will now turn the call back over to Carl. Carl? Carl T. Wolf - MamaMancini's Holdings, Inc. - Chairman & CEO Okay. Good, so no one heard me. As I noted in my opening remarks -- I'm going to start over again. That's really good. As I noted in my opening remarks, we continue to execute on all fronts and have laid the foundation for an incredible year. I am proud of the operational progress our team made in the third quarter, realizing strong year-over-year growth amidst the backdrop of COVID-19. We continue the growth in breadth and depth of our product distribution footprint and retail storefronts nationwide. Our strong financial results are a testament to both our sales engine and continued tireless realization of operational efficiencies. As we move toward the conclusion of 2020 and into 2021, various positive potential outcomes await MamaMancini from the realization of strategic alternatives to potential uplisting and continued growth. We are primed for another record-breaking year. I look forward to continue these efforts as we work to create sustainable long-term value for our shareholders. With that, I'll turn this over to the operator. Operator? QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS Operator (Operator Instructions) Our first question will come from Howard Halpern with Taglich Brothers. Howard Allen Halpern - Taglich Brothers, Inc., Research Division - Senior Equity Analyst Congratulations guys on solid operating results during this pandemic time. First question is regarding, were there any kind of -- were you seeing any kind of delays in product shipments that should have occurred in the third quarter, but might be falling into the fourth quarter? 5 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 14, 2020 / 9:30PM, MMMB.PK - Q3 2021 MamaMancini's Holdings Inc Earnings Call Carl T. Wolf - MamaMancini's Holdings, Inc. - Chairman & CEO No. But first of all, I'd like to thank everyone. We have close to 50 participants today, which is more than a record. And also, if I don't like a question, I'm going to put it back on mute again. But any case, we did not have any delay in shipments. What was delayed was new -- realization of new authorizations. Basically, the whole industry shut down through July on new commerce. Starting in the middle of August, business really got very dramatic and now we have several new placements in the works. And even now this week, which is normally everything is dead, we are very, very active. So I expect to see very, very robust growth coming in the near future. Howard Allen Halpern - Taglich Brothers, Inc., Research Division - Senior Equity Analyst Okay. In terms of, I guess, the balance sheet, the remaining warrants, do you anticipate them being exercised? Or are they going to just remain on the books now for a while? Carl T. Wolf - MamaMancini's Holdings, Inc. - Chairman & CEO No, the warrants, you're talking about options, warrants are all -- are all either exercised or expired. There was over 5 million warrants. They are all in or non-exercised. We have -- I mentioned in my discussion that we have about 800 plus thousand options. Those are options given to our management, employees and Board of Directors. They will be exercised over the next 2.5 to 3 years. Howard Allen Halpern - Taglich Brothers, Inc., Research Division - Senior Equity Analyst Okay. And in terms of -- now the term loan has gone, you just have line of credit. What is your capacity in the line of credit, which, I think, at the end of the third quarter, you had $650,000 outstanding. But just for flexibility purposes, what is your capability on that line? Carl T. Wolf - MamaMancini's Holdings, Inc. - Chairman & CEO We have a $3.5 million line of credit right now. As I mentioned in my discussion, we have 0 outstanding on that. Depending on our needs, that can be expanded. Howard Allen Halpern - Taglich Brothers, Inc., Research Division - Senior Equity Analyst Okay. And as was discussed earlier, too, you've had some new equipment that just started up. What are we looking at in terms of capital expenditures in the fourth quarter? And are they going to continue in the first half of next year? Or is really the fourth quarter going to button up the amount of capital -- CapEx for the year? Carl T. Wolf - MamaMancini's Holdings, Inc. - Chairman & CEO We are budgeting around $300,000 to $500,000 a year right now with various upgrades and improvements. This quarter, we'll end with the -- finishing of the packaging room, which was about $300,000 range. And most of that has been financed through loans from M&T Bank. Howard Allen Halpern - Taglich Brothers, Inc., Research Division - Senior Equity Analyst Okay. And based on the implementation of the new equipment and the software system, can we anticipate, as we go through next fiscal year, incremental quarterly improvement in gross margin -- gross and operating margin? 6 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 14, 2020 / 9:30PM, MMMB.PK - Q3 2021 MamaMancini's Holdings Inc Earnings Call Carl T. Wolf - MamaMancini's Holdings, Inc. - Chairman & CEO We hope to see that as we create more efficiencies in our plants, absorbing plant overhead. There is one caveat in that. There is a part of our business, which we call direct variable expenses. That is shipping cost, any commissions or royalties and any merchandising expense. So if the product mix changes at all, we -- and most of it is operating expenses. So if the product mix changes at all to a customer that has very, very low-cost of fulfilling the orders, you then may see a slightly lower gross profit. But right now, based on the mix we have right now, we should see continuing steady improvements in gross profits. Howard Allen Halpern - Taglich Brothers, Inc., Research Division - Senior Equity Analyst Okay. And one final one for me is, now that hopefully, things hopefully might get back to a more normalcy in the second half of next year, with reengagement in the foodservice area, do you anticipate that the groundwork that you're going to be able to lay down now will bear some fruit in the second half of next year? Carl T. Wolf - MamaMancini's Holdings, Inc. - Chairman & CEO By then or sooner. Operator (Operator Instructions) Our next question comes from Jeff Kobylarz with Diamond Bridge Capital. Jeffrey Kobylarz - Diamond Bridge Capital, L.P - Analyst Gentlemen, thanks for the good update on how you're doing. Can you comment what the impact of higher beef was on your gross margin? Is there any dollar value? Carl T. Wolf - MamaMancini's Holdings, Inc. - Chairman & CEO Well, we -- it was modest, even though the prices went long way up, we were able to pass along the price increases to customers fairly well. So all in all, it was a very modest negative impact. Jeffrey Kobylarz - Diamond Bridge Capital, L.P - Analyst Okay. Fine and then as far as... Carl T. Wolf - MamaMancini's Holdings, Inc. - Chairman & CEO We also cut back certain marketing activities to compensate for it. So the operating profit remained intact. Jeffrey Kobylarz - Diamond Bridge Capital, L.P - Analyst Sure. All right. And then as far as the coronavirus, is there any way you can say, in this year, year-to-date, what the impact was. There's the trend of more eating from home, but then there have been I assume delays in orders from customer retailers to put through additional authorizations for placements. Is there any way you could talk about those pros and cons of the virus. 7 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 14, 2020 / 9:30PM, MMMB.PK - Q3 2021 MamaMancini's Holdings Inc Earnings Call Carl T. Wolf - MamaMancini's Holdings, Inc. - Chairman & CEO I would say in the spring of the year, when there was panic buying and consumers stocked up and also panic buying because of meat shortages, it had a positive effect on sales and profits. And then later in the year as we grew our business, that sale -- those sales remained or backed off slightly because there was an inventory built. However, our bulk deli business, our hot bar business backed off because of less consumption in supermarkets. That now is starting to perform toward normal. It also pushed back new merchandising activity and authorization, which is running very positive, but running later in the year. All in all, I would say it's been neutral in the year. Jeffrey Kobylarz - Diamond Bridge Capital, L.P - Analyst Okay. And in the press release and what Matt said about how you're increasing your capacity in your plants, can you say how much you've increased your capacity in your plants? And what's your... Carl T. Wolf - MamaMancini's Holdings, Inc. - Chairman & CEO We've given guidance on that. The capacity in the plant is somewhere, we think, today, around $65 million a year with the right product mix. And then we have options to increase that by another kind of a $10 million to $15 million by using -- having some of the components made by co-packers for us, not the final product, some of the components. So we think we have $75 million to $80 million worth of capacity with some modest investments, not major, from where we stand right now. Jeffrey Kobylarz - Diamond Bridge Capital, L.P - Analyst Okay. All right. Great. And then you've had a number of great announcements, like you said in the press release since August, the Publix 1,250 stores, Walmart, 600, et cetera. Is there any way to quantify what the annual volume revenue is from those additions? Carl T. Wolf - MamaMancini's Holdings, Inc. - Chairman & CEO But we try not to let people know that because one chains don't like that. So if you notice, we tend to group new placements together. So the Walmart was a onetime rotation. It was very successful. And we will hear very soon as to whether it's a permanent placement this spring. If so, it would be a very, very nice addition to our volume. But it was not in all stores of Walmart and it was not in for -- it was only in for about 8 weeks, but we did very well. And then it appears that we met all their requirements. Operator Our next question comes from James Bogin with Legend Capital. James M. Bogin - Legend Capital Management LLC - Founder I was wondering if you could give us any update about what you're doing with B. Riley, given that that's 2.5 months old now? Or what your plans are to list on the regular NASDAQ? Carl T. Wolf - MamaMancini's Holdings, Inc. - Chairman & CEO We should have a pretty good idea of where we are on strategic decisions by mid- to late January, and that would include uplisting. We now -- we think we meet all of the requirements except for stock price in terms of equity and earnings. So we will make the decisions at that point. 8 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 14, 2020 / 9:30PM, MMMB.PK - Q3 2021 MamaMancini's Holdings Inc Earnings Call Operator This concludes our question-and-answer session. I would like to turn the conference back over to Carl Wolf for any closing remarks. Carl T. Wolf - MamaMancini's Holdings, Inc. - Chairman & CEO Thank you, operator. As a final note, once COVID-19 subsides, we will continue to be active in attending top investor conferences and investor non-deal roadshows, marking on both coasts of the U.S. In the meantime, we will continue our efforts on a virtual basis. If interested in scheduling a meeting with management, when we are in your region, please reach out to our IR firm, MZ group, to arrange. Thank you again for joining us today. We look forward to continuing to update you on our progress. Thanks again. DISCLAIMER Refinitiv reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes. In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized. THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES REFINITIV OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS. 2020, Refinitiv. All Rights Reserved. 13537467-2020-12-15T17:55:25 9 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 14, 2020 / 9:30PM, MMMB.PK - Q3 2021 MamaMancini's Holdings Inc Earnings Call
REFINITIV STREETEVENTS EDITED TRANSCRIPT CMTL.OQ - Q1 2021 Comtech Telecommunications Corp Earnings Call EVENT DATE/TIME: DECEMBER 09, 2020 / 9:30PM GMT REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS Fred Kornberg Comtech Telecommunications Corp. - Chairman & CEO Jason DiLorenzo Comtech Telecommunications Corp. - VP of Tax Michael A. Bondi Comtech Telecommunications Corp. - CFO Michael D. Porcelain Comtech Telecommunications Corp. - President & COO CONFERENCE CALL PARTICIPANTS Asiya Merchant Citigroup Inc., Research Division - VP & Analyst Christopher David Quilty Quilty Analytics, Inc., Research Division - Research Analyst Joseph Anthony Gomes NOBLE Capital Markets, Inc., Research Division - Senior Generalist Analyst Kyle P. McNealy Jefferies LLC, Research Division - Equity Analyst PRESENTATION Operator Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by. Welcome to Comtech Telecommunications Corp. First Quarter Fiscal 2021 Earnings Conference Call. (Operator Instructions) As a reminder, this conference is being recorded Wednesday, December 9, 2020. I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr. Jason DiLorenzo of Comtech Telecommunications. Please go ahead, sir. Jason DiLorenzo - Comtech Telecommunications Corp. - VP of Tax Thank you, and good afternoon. Welcome to the Comtech Telecommunications Corp. conference call for the first quarter of fiscal year 2021. With us on the call today are Fred Kornberg, Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of Comtech; Michael D. Porcelain, President and Chief Operating Officer; and Michael Bondi, Chief Financial Officer. Before we proceed, I need to remind you of the company's safe harbor language. Certain information presented in this call will include, but not be limited to, information relating to the future performance and financial condition of the company; the company's plans, objectives and business outlook and the plans, objectives and business outlook of company's management. The company's assumptions regarding such performance, business outlook and plans are forward-looking in nature and involve significant risks and uncertainties. Actual results could differ materially from such forward-looking information. Any forward-looking statements are qualified in their entirety by cautionary statements contained in the company's Securities and Exchange Commission filings. I am pleased now to introduce the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Comtech, Fred Kornberg. Fred? Fred Kornberg - Comtech Telecommunications Corp. - Chairman & CEO Thank you, Jason, and good afternoon, everyone, and thank you for joining us on this call. Today, we will be discussing the results for our first quarter of fiscal 2021 and our outlook for the full fiscal year. As you see from our announcement this afternoon, fiscal 2021 is off to a great start. Our net sales and adjusted EBITDA for the first quarter exceeded our expectations. Our first quarter net sales were $135.2 million with an adjusted EBITDA of $14.3 million. 2 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 09, 2020 / 9:30PM, CMTL.OQ - Q1 2021 Comtech Telecommunications Corp Earnings Call As everyone knows, COVID-19 is still in the front -- forefront of news. And although by no means is it over, we believe that the pandemic's worst impact on our business is largely behind us. As announced earlier today, with our diversified customer base, product leadership positions and mounting prospects, we are targeting fiscal 2021 net sales to be in the range of approximately $610 million to $630 million. And our targeted adjusted EBITDA to now be in the range of $74 million to $76 million. As you can see, our strategic initiatives are paying off, and we are clearly holding our own despite the second wave of the COVID-19 pandemic. Our pipeline of large order deals remains strong. And if momentum continues, we should achieve a book-to-bill ratio in excess of 1.0 for fiscal 2021. Now let me turn over the call to Michael Bondi, our CFO, who will provide additional commentary about our financials. After that, Michael Porcelain, our President and COO, will provide an update on our business and pending acquisition. Then I will come back and -- before opening the line to questions and answers. Thank you. Mike? Michael A. Bondi - Comtech Telecommunications Corp. - CFO Thank you, Fred, and good afternoon, everyone. As mentioned, net sales for the first quarter of fiscal 2021 were $135.2 million. This is a decrease from the $170.3 million reported in Q1 of fiscal 2020. Net sales in the first quarter to U.S.-based customers were 74.4% of total net sales, with 25.6% to international customers. Bookings for the first quarter were $123.2 million, and our consolidated book-to-bill ratio was 0.91. We finished the quarter with healthy backlog of $605.5 million. And when you factor in the total unfunded value of certain multi-year contracts that have been awarded to us, but which are not yet in our backlog, we have visibility into approximately $1 billion of total potential future revenue. Now let me give you some financial metrics and commentary with respect to the rest of the income statement. Our gross profit percentage in Q1 of fiscal 2021 was 37.1% as compared to the 37.3% achieved in the first quarter of fiscal 2020. Our gross profit during the first quarter of fiscal 2021 reflects minor increases in costs due to order delays, production delays, minor supply chain disruptions, lower levels of factory utilization and higher logistics and operational costs resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic. These were partially offset by lower travel costs. Given our expectations for the level and mix of net sales in fiscal 2021 and ongoing higher production logistics and safety-related costs resulting from COVID-19, we are targeting a 35% gross profit margin for fiscal 2021. However, if product mix shifts favorably, we could reasonably achieve 37% like we just did in Q1. SG&A for the first quarter of fiscal 2021 was $27.5 million or 20.3% of consolidated net sales, as compared to $31.9 million or 18.7% in Q1 of fiscal 2020. Turning to R&D, we spent $11.6 million in the first quarter or 8.6% of net sales. Consistent with historical trends, the majority was spent in our Commercial Solutions segment. Total stock-based compensation for the first quarter was $0.7 million and amortization of intangibles was $5.6 million. Looking forward, we continue to expect stock-based compensation to approximate $11 million to $13 million, and excluding the impact of the pending UHP acquisition, amortization of intangibles to approximate $21.1 million. 3 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 09, 2020 / 9:30PM, CMTL.OQ - Q1 2021 Comtech Telecommunications Corp Earnings Call Now let me address the acquisition plan expenses, which obviously had a big impact on our reported results. During the first quarter of fiscal 2021, we incurred $91.2 million of such expenses. Of this amount, approximately $88.3 million related to the previously announced litigation settlement and merger termination with Gilat, of which $70 million was paid in cash to Gilat during the quarter. The remaining cost primarily related to the pending acquisition of UHP and NG-911 acquisition-related litigation. These items are discussed further in more detail in our 10-Q filed with the SEC. Including these costs, our consolidated GAAP operating loss for the first quarter of fiscal 2021 was $85.7 million. Excluding these costs, non-GAAP operating income would have been $5.5 million or 4.0% of consolidated net sales. Our adjusted EBITDA was $14.3 million or 10.6% of consolidated net sales for the first quarter of fiscal 2021. On a segment basis, adjusted EBITDA in our Commercial Solutions segment was $14 million or 17.1% of related net sales. And in our Government Solutions segment it was $4.3 million or 8.1% of related sales. For fiscal 2021, we anticipate consolidated adjusted EBITDA to approximate 12% when using the $620 million midpoint of our 2021 targeted range of net sales. Now let me talk about interest, taxes, EPS, cash flows and our balance sheet. Interest expense was $2.3 million in the first quarter and includes $1.2 million of incremental interest expense for ticking fees related to a now terminated financing commitment letter. For fiscal 2021, excluding the impact of our pending acquisition of UHP, we now expect total interest expense to approximate $7.5 million. Our estimated annual effective tax rate was 13.75% and excludes a net discrete tax expense of $0.2 million in the first quarter of 2021. On the bottom line, our GAAP net loss in the first quarter of fiscal 2021 was $85.8 million or a $3.39 loss per diluted share. Excluding acquisition plan expenses, incremental interest expense for ticking fees and a net discrete tax expense in the first quarter, non-GAAP net income was $3.7 million or $0.15 per diluted share. Cash used for operating activities was $74.2 million for the first quarter. This included the $70 million payment to Gilat. Excluding the $70 million payment to Gilat, net cash used in operating activities would have been $4.2 million. We expect to generate a significant amount of positive operating cash flow during the remainder of fiscal 2021. Our balance sheet as of October 31, 2020, includes $32.5 million of cash and cash equivalents, and our total debt outstanding was $217 million. Our current secured leverage ratio, as defined in our credit facility, was 3.31x as compared to a maximum ratio allowed of 3.75x. Before turning it over to Mike for a business update, let me provide some additional color on our expected fiscal 2021 performance. Based on anticipated product mix and timing assumptions, we expect second quarter net sales to range from approximately $135 million to $140 million, with adjusted EBITDA in the range of approximately $12.5 million to $14.5 million. For the remaining quarters in fiscal 2021, we expect sequential growth with our fourth quarter targeted to be the peak. 4 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 09, 2020 / 9:30PM, CMTL.OQ - Q1 2021 Comtech Telecommunications Corp Earnings Call Now I will hand it over to Mike Porcelain. Mike? Michael D. Porcelain - Comtech Telecommunications Corp. - President & COO Thanks, Mike. As Fred mentioned earlier, COVID-19 is still impacting our business. We continue to conduct most of our nonproduction-related operations using remote working arrangements, have curtailed most business travel and have established social distancing safeguards. These precautions and business practices are expected to remain in effect, so long as government advisories recommend. Despite this, it was a great quarter. And let me talk about the team's success in terms of business performance, contract wins and the direction of where we think these efforts will lead us. I will first discuss our Commercial Solutions segment. Here, net sales were $81.8 million this quarter as compared to $94.3 million in Q1 of last year, a decrease of about 13%, which is not bad considering the impact of COVID-19 on our international sales. Bookings in this segment were $66.3 million for the quarter, resulting in a book-to-bill ratio of 0.81. Bookings were mainly affected by COVID-19, which caused many international bookings to shift to the right. Period-to-period fluctuation in bookings is normal for this segment. And although we have seen a recent spike in COVID-19 cases in many of the geographic markets where we sell our Satellite Ground Station Technologies, it was a relatively good quarter, and we believe there is light at the end of the tunnel. Bookings this past quarter were higher than the bookings achieved in each of our prior 2 quarters. In fact, we were awarded a number of important orders, including: A $1.7 million order from a large government entity in Asia, who selected our equipment to support a significant network upgrade. A $1.5 million order for single channel per carrier, or SCPC satellite modems from a Tier 1 defense contractor to upgrade and expand an existing network with our CDM-625A Advanced Satellite Modems. We received $1 million in delivery orders from the U.S. Naval Information Warfare Systems Command for our latest generation SLM-5650B satellite modems as well as firmware upgrades. And we also received $1 million order for satellite ground station equipment from the largest telecommunication company in Africa, who specified our Heights Networking Platform to enhance and improve its mobile backhaul capabilities. Now on to our Public Safety and Location Technology product lines. First quarter of fiscal 2021 net sales were lower as compared to last year. This decline was expected and mostly timing related. As previously disclosed, we anticipated that AT&T would cease purchasing certain of our 911 wireless call routing solutions as a result of our receipt of a large contract a few years ago from another large U.S. mobile network operator. Our first quarter of fiscal 2021 reflected the absence of such sales to AT&T, but they were offset in part by increased sales of our 5G virtual mobile location-based technology solutions. 5 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 09, 2020 / 9:30PM, CMTL.OQ - Q1 2021 Comtech Telecommunications Corp Earnings Call Also during the most recent quarter, we commenced work related to our recently awarded $54 million contract to design, deploy and operate NG-911 services for the state of South Carolina. To date, the business impact of COVID-19 on our Public Safety and Location Technology solutions has been relatively muted, and long-term demand for our products appear strong. Although COVID-19 has resulted in the cancellation of several key public safety trade shows and some states and municipalities announced budget constraints, we believe other customers are increasing their funding for Next Generation 911 solutions, recognizing the critical importance of upgrading their 911 systems. In fact, our second quarter of fiscal '21 has started off with a bang. In November 2020, we announced that we were awarded a statewide contract valued up to $175.1 million to design, deploy and operate Next Generation 911 services for the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania. The total contract value includes multiyear contract extension options, and the Commonwealth initially funded the contract at $137.4 million of which we have booked $111.6 million during our second quarter as bookings. Based on our anticipated timing of performance, we expect meaningful revenue contribution from this contract to begin in earnest in fiscal 2022. This was really a great win for us, coming on the heels of the $54 million contract award with the state of South Carolina, which we announced in July 2020. And not to be overlooked, we also received a number of other important orders during the first quarter. We received a contract renewal for location and mapping technologies worth $4.2 million with a Tier 1 mobile network operator. We received a contract valued up to $2.4 million to provide Next Generation 911 services, including our Solacom Guardian Intelligent 911 Workstations to the city of Edmonton, police, fire and rescue service. We received a large 5-year update contract to provide a Tier 1 mobile operator in Saudi Arabia with both active and passive location services supporting their 2G, 3G and 4G networks. We received a contract renewal for location-based services with Telefnica Digital, a Madrid-based research and development company, which uses our global location services solution for its M-to-M or machine-to-machine communication requirements and other customer use cases. And we received contracts with the Indian motorcycle company to expand coverage for a ride command feature in Europe, the Middle East and Africa, which provides maps and points of interest data and supports for doppler radar system for its customers in the U.S. and Canada. In aggregate, we remain optimistic that 2021 net sales for this segment will be higher than the amount we achieved in fiscal 2020. Now let me turn to our Government Solutions segment sales, where -- here our net sales were $53.4 million in Q1 of fiscal 2021. Bookings in our Government Solutions segment for Q1 of fiscal 2021 came in at $56.9 million with a book-to-bill ratio in excess of 1.0 at 1.07. Period-to-period fluctuation in bookings is normal for this segment as well. Net sales of our Mission-Critical Technologies during the first quarter of fiscal 2021 were lower as compared to the first quarter last year, primarily due to the timing of and performance on orders related to our Global Tactical Advanced Communication systems, or GTACs contract; and high reliability, Electrical, Electronic and Electromechanical or commonly known as EEE, satellite-based space components. Q1 of fiscal '21 does reflect a nominal amount of sales from our January 2020 acquisition of CGC. Receipt of new orders for our Mission-Critical Technologies during the quarter included the following: 6 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 09, 2020 / 9:30PM, CMTL.OQ - Q1 2021 Comtech Telecommunications Corp Earnings Call a $5.9 million of additional funding on our contract to provide the U.S. Army with global field support services for military satellite communication terminals around the world. It included $5.4 million of additional orders from the U.S. government for our Joint Cyber Analysis Course, or JCAC, training solutions. We received $3 million of additional funding for a 12-month extension on an existing contract to provide Maryland's Department of Human services with statewide IT services. We also received $2.7 million of orders to provide ongoing sustainment services to the U.S. Army for SNAP. And $2.6 million of orders to supply Manpack Satellite Terminals, networking equipment and other Advanced VSAT products to the U.S. Army. And finally, it included $1.9 million of additional funding to continue to provide other critical IT staffing to multiple agencies within the city of Baltimore. During the first quarter, we continue to make progress to ship initial orders on our 10-year $211 million IDIQ contract awarded to us by a prime contractor to provide next-generation troposcatter systems in support of the U.S. Marines. We believe this multiyear opportunity validates Comtech's market-leading troposcatter technologies and expertise. At the same time, we continue to see strong interest from both the U.S. military and foreign governments for our recently introduced Comtech COMET terminals. With respect to COVID-19 in this segment, as I previously mentioned, we have seen some of our international customers delaying potential order awards, and we are also seeing fielding and order delays from U.S. military customers. In fact, in December 2020, we temporarily closed our antenna production facility in the U.K. due to a spike in COVID-19 cases in that area. Obviously, this has impacted costs and our ability to deliver certain orders but all of that is reflected in the guidance that Fred and Mike spoke about earlier. In addition, we believe these issues are temporary and long-term demand for our Government Solution products and technologies remain strong. As such, looking forward, we believe fiscal 2021 net sales for this segment will be similar or slightly higher than the amount we achieved in fiscal 2020. Now I have one quick comment before turning it back to Fred. On the UHP acquisition front, here, we remain focused on the ongoing regulatory review process in Russia. We acknowledge that December 31, 2020, and prior SEC filings was a critical milestone. And if we do not get regulatory approval by that date, either party may terminate the acquisition. But that said, we continue to have discussions with UHP and hopes to finding a solution that works for all parties. Now let me turn it back to Fred, who will provide some closing remarks. Fred? Fred Kornberg - Comtech Telecommunications Corp. - Chairman & CEO Thank you, Mike. As I mentioned before and as you heard from both Mikes here, we're all very pleased with our business and performing -- particularly results performing in the first quarter. 7 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 09, 2020 / 9:30PM, CMTL.OQ - Q1 2021 Comtech Telecommunications Corp Earnings Call With our diversified customer base, product leadership positions and mounting -- prospects, we are clearly holding our own despite the second wave of the COVID-19 pandemic. Given our business outlook, our Board of Directors continue to declare a dividend for the first quarter of fiscal 2021 of $0.10 per common share payable on February 19, 2021, to shareholders of record at the close of business on January 20, 2021. We continue to believe that our dividend program is a great way to return capital to our shareholders as we look to grow our business. Now I'd like to proceed to the question-and-answer part of our conference call. Operator? QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS Operator (Operator Instructions) We are going to take our first question from Joe Gomes from Noble Capital. Joseph Anthony Gomes - NOBLE Capital Markets, Inc., Research Division - Senior Generalist Analyst Congratulations on the quarter. So I just wanted to talk a little bit here first on the Next Generation 911. You guys seem to be having some fantastic success there. Just trying to get a bigger picture of what do you guys really see is driving these wins? I think in the last call, you said there you were working on 2 large state ones, I would assume one is Pennsylvania. Is the other one still available? What's the competitive environment? Are you pretty -- I guess, kind of like what's the win rate here for you guys in the business at this point in time? Michael D. Porcelain - Comtech Telecommunications Corp. - President & COO Sure. Well, yes, we're really pleased with the contract win that we got from the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania. And the way I would categorize it is, it's extremely competitive in the marketplace. And we think we're winning more than our fair share. In fact, we're winning most, if not all of the large contracts. And we've done so in the past with Commonwealth of Massachusetts, the state of Washington on the West Coast and South Carolina and now Pennsylvania. So we're taking it state by state. And yes, there is a really large opportunity that's out there. And we'll probably see some activity on that in calendar year next year, not our fiscal year, but the calendar year 2021, and we'll see how that develops. But we're extremely optimistic that we will be awarded a very significant contract there. And although it is competitive, we like to think it's our prior experience and technology that is winning the states, and we're demonstrating excellence in how we do our products, and we're winning. So technology and our experience, and it's competitive, but we're doing great. Joseph Anthony Gomes - NOBLE Capital Markets, Inc., Research Division - Senior Generalist Analyst Okay. And on the UHP acquisition, I don't know if you can talk a little bit. I mean, what just seems to be the holdup in getting this thing to the finish line? What are the Russian authorities, I guess, focused on that the deal has not come to fruition yet? Michael D. Porcelain - Comtech Telecommunications Corp. - President & COO Well, the best way I could describe it is typically the Russian government normally has 4 to 5 meetings a year, where they kind of make these decisions related to the acquisitions. And because of COVID, we only know that they've had one meeting since February. So these are sort of behind 8 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 09, 2020 / 9:30PM, CMTL.OQ - Q1 2021 Comtech Telecommunications Corp Earnings Call the door meetings that the Russian government has, but we certainly think COVID-19 has impacted the speed of which the Russian government has had to work through the process. We're not really aware of anything specific that the Russian government has that they would be opposing it. They haven't told us any specific reason or opposing it. We think we're somewhat caught up in the impact of COVID and the lengthy delays of just general bureaucracy, not in the negative way, but that's just what we're dealing with. And both parties understand that. But we're not aware of any specific reason that the Russian government would oppose this transaction. That I can tell you without any question. Joseph Anthony Gomes - NOBLE Capital Markets, Inc., Research Division - Senior Generalist Analyst Okay. And one last one for me, I'll jump back in queue. So SG&A expenses seem to have been a little elevated here sequentially. And then also if I look quarter-over-quarter, or year-over-year as a percent of sales, anything going on in there? Is that -- the $27.5 million for the quarter, a good run rate going forward? Or do you think those will be reined in some? Michael A. Bondi - Comtech Telecommunications Corp. - CFO Joe, this is Mike. In terms of the comparative that you were doing to Q4 to Q1, just keep in mind that in the fourth quarter we had issued our nonequity bonuses in share units. So you get a little bit of a bump there. Joseph Anthony Gomes - NOBLE Capital Markets, Inc., Research Division - Senior Generalist Analyst Okay. And year-over-year as a percent of sales, they were up, I think, about 200 basis points? Michael A. Bondi - Comtech Telecommunications Corp. - CFO Yes. And the run rate for -- Yes, the run rate for Q1, I would expect, in terms of our historical percentages, we had done some cost-saving measures back in Q3 of last year. And be mindful of the level of business, we'd expect to try to hold our historical relationship there. Operator Our next question comes from Chris Quilty from Quilty Analytics. Christopher David Quilty - Quilty Analytics, Inc., Research Division - Research Analyst Guys, just wanted to follow-up, I think, in the guidance you provided. It's -- you expect the earth station business to be flat in '21, is that correct? And can you talk about what trends you're seeing there, either by end market demand or trends in your specific product line where you're seeing either uptake or slowdown by product or technology? Michael D. Porcelain - Comtech Telecommunications Corp. - President & COO Look, the international market, we're seeing, you could call it, sluggishness, if you will. I mean, we've certainly seen and experienced order delays on what I would categorize as the small orders. In terms of the vertical markets that we've participated, I mean, the cruise line market for us is dead in the water, to use that phrase. We're not -- we don't see any activity there. But on the other hand, and despite our categorization of flat, I could tell you that there are a number of large multimillion-dollar opportunities that we are working in the satellite ground station business that -- I don't want to use the word transformational, but they're multimillion-dollar contracts 9 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 09, 2020 / 9:30PM, CMTL.OQ - Q1 2021 Comtech Telecommunications Corp Earnings Call that we believe that we have a good shot at winning, either the whole contract or a portion of those contracts. And we don't want to talk too much about that from a competitive perspective, on which ones there are, but there are multiple contracts, multiple opportunities that exist in the marketplace. And so we're seeing extensive activity there and a lot of interest in our products. Christopher David Quilty - Quilty Analytics, Inc., Research Division - Research Analyst And are some of these LEO broadband-related projects? Michael D. Porcelain - Comtech Telecommunications Corp. - President & COO Yes. Christopher David Quilty - Quilty Analytics, Inc., Research Division - Research Analyst And are there -- anything outside of that where you're seeing major customer upgrades due to technology refresh or other issues on the supply side in terms of satellite capacity with new, very high throughput satellites coming online? Michael D. Porcelain - Comtech Telecommunications Corp. - President & COO The short answer is, yes. Although the sales cycle -- we've always talked about it being long and it's probably longer now because of COVID. The Q1 quarter, which I think I mentioned at least $1 million order we called out, we're seeing good activity on our Heights products still. So it's pretty broad-based. But on the smaller side, we are seeing a slowdown in slow -- smaller orders that we see. But on the other hand, the bigger customers are pretty active, and we'll see how the year plays out. But it's sluggishness. And it's got its fits and stops, if you will, starts and stops. And we haven't really seen consistency yet in order flow to see that it's going to jump up and start to increase in sales like it was about a year ago. Probably a little bit more time needs to work its way through. Christopher David Quilty - Quilty Analytics, Inc., Research Division - Research Analyst Great. And shifting to the Government outlook. Presumably, your forecast assumes that we get something beyond a short-term budget that gets put in place in the next couple of months, and we're not stuck in another sequester for some period of time or other budget maras? That was a question. Michael D. Porcelain - Comtech Telecommunications Corp. - President & COO Yes. I mean, look, we've got pretty healthy backlog in our Government segment to kind of hold us through what -- we obviously will see a change in administration. But I think the budget will be the budget, we'll get our fair share, and we'll see how it plays out. But we're not really nervous about it, but I think they just passed something yesterday or the day before in terms of some budget compromise or whatever. And I can't speak specifically because it just happened. I haven't had a chance to digest it, but we're not concerned internally about what happens with the actions of the budget. We have, like I said, good backlog. We know the opportunities that we're working on for the rest of the year, and we feel pretty good about the programs that we're participating on. Christopher David Quilty - Quilty Analytics, Inc., Research Division - Research Analyst Got you. And I think you did mention you've experienced some delays in fielding equipment. And I've heard sporadic reports from other companies around that same issue. Is it your sense that it's getting better or worse? Have you worked through the COVID-type procedures in order to be more 10 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 09, 2020 / 9:30PM, CMTL.OQ - Q1 2021 Comtech Telecommunications Corp Earnings Call effective at deploying with government customers? Or is the biggest issue government policy in terms of what they allow to happen in terms of deployments? Michael D. Porcelain - Comtech Telecommunications Corp. - President & COO It's a little bit of both. I would characterize it as not getting better, but it's not getting worse. So I think it's something that we've been dealing with for the last few months. And I guess our hope is with the vaccines coming to marketplace, we'll continue to see a rebound in that stuff and the orders that were delayed or not placed will come through the channel. Christopher David Quilty - Quilty Analytics, Inc., Research Division - Research Analyst Got you. And final question on the 911 business, congrats on the big win. I think you had implied that there may be more than one of those that you think are a possibility this year? Michael D. Porcelain - Comtech Telecommunications Corp. - President & COO Well, we had 2 large opportunities that we talked about. And we definitively have one very large opportunity. But yes, you are right. There are other 911 opportunities we haven't really alluded or hinted to them, but they are out there. And I can't say whether or not the second opportunity would come in this fiscal year. But there are other opportunities, other than the ones that we're talking about. And as things progress through the sales channel or opportunity, obviously, we're going to be mindful of the competition. And we're not going to talk too much about them. But when we say we feel pretty comfortable we're going to win, we feel pretty comfortable we're going to win. And that one other opportunity, we feel pretty good about. Christopher David Quilty - Quilty Analytics, Inc., Research Division - Research Analyst Great. And the funding environment, the CARES Act I'm sure provided some money, but have you had a chance to see, I can't imagine, what's in the next package that's coming through? And whether that would be supportive of some of these government spending programs? Because, obviously, a lot of the states and municipalities are way down on tax revenue. Michael D. Porcelain - Comtech Telecommunications Corp. - President & COO Well, I think as it relates to the U.S. market, no impact to us. On the other hand, Chris, we have seen, in particular, the Canadian government recently launched some funding out there, specifically on the satellite to one of our favorite customers that's based in Canada. So we feel we're going to get some orders from there. And we think other international governments are going to start funding the infrastructure, and since they use satellite as a form of communication infrastructure, we think we'll benefit from them. But those things need to happen. But we've only seen one instance of a very specific impact to us that we haven't received the orders yet, but we're pretty optimistic based on the funding that we'll get them. Operator Our next question comes from Asiya Merchant from Citigroup. 11 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 09, 2020 / 9:30PM, CMTL.OQ - Q1 2021 Comtech Telecommunications Corp Earnings Call Asiya Merchant - Citigroup Inc., Research Division - VP & Analyst Congratulations on a good quarter. Just as you guys sound pretty optimistic, there is obviously the macro to consider, but maybe Mike referred to gross margins could be closer to 37%. And EBITDA -- adjusted EBITDA margin's hanging here around 12% at the midpoint, which is lower than -- slightly lower, I should say, relative to where you guys were last year. Can you walk us through some of the puts and takes to that? And then I also have a follow-up question on cash flow. How should we think about cash flow for the year, knowing that the first quarter was obviously a large payment out to Gilat? Michael A. Bondi - Comtech Telecommunications Corp. - CFO Hi Asiya, this is Mike. So in terms of your first question, in terms of the guide for the midpoint for the year. Yes, we're trying to be mindful of what's in the news. And as Mike referred to some delays, and I was referring to some disruptions here and there. We just wanted to be mindful of that when thinking about the full year for EBITDA. But in terms of gross margins themselves, we have some very large, lumpy government orders that we had known were timed for the fiscal 2021 period. So as those clear out, that will obviously affect the gross profit margins in the quarter. But we had thought for Q1, we were going to be around 35%. We ended up doing like 37%. So as we work through these deliveries, it's going to be in that range. In terms of cash flows from operations for the year, for the remainder of the year, we do expect to see significant positive cash flows. And in terms of free cash flow itself, as Mike mentioned, we had won the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania contract, and we also recently, as a reminder, won the state of South Carolina contracts. And there, when you think about free cash flows, we'll probably see an uptick from our historical levels of CapEx to support the deployments of those very large programs. Operator (Operator Instructions) We now have a question from Kyle McNealy from Jefferies. Kyle P. McNealy - Jefferies LLC, Research Division - Equity Analyst I wanted to ask if you could tell us the revenue in the quarter for satellite ground station products and what the year-over-year growth was for that product vertical? Michael D. Porcelain - Comtech Telecommunications Corp. - President & COO Yes, Kyle. We generally -- as you know, we don't break out our product line for our segments, but we have made comments in the past that, that business line as a whole is probably about 50% or so, plus or minus. So that's the way I would tell you to think about it. But obviously, for competitive reasons, we just don't want to put a number on there. Kyle P. McNealy - Jefferies LLC, Research Division - Equity Analyst Okay. Can you give us any kind of sense for the growth rate year-over-year, just kind of a yardstick or a range of growth rate? Just trying to get a sense for recovery from last quarter. Michael D. Porcelain - Comtech Telecommunications Corp. - President & COO Well, I think for the year, looking at the year and being mindful of the fact that we're not going to have the AT&T 911 routing services in our Commercial segment, you can think about it being similar, relatively flat. It's in aggregate for both the public safety business and our commercial 12 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 09, 2020 / 9:30PM, CMTL.OQ - Q1 2021 Comtech Telecommunications Corp Earnings Call segment, but it's a plus or minus on each of the segments. A few million dollars could change that relationship. So if you want to talk big picture, that's the way I would tell you to think about it. Kyle P. McNealy - Jefferies LLC, Research Division - Equity Analyst Okay. And going forward, do you kind of expect now that you're past the bulk of the COVID impact in the satellite ground station business, do you expect it to be a slow grind recovery? Or is there potential for snapback? I know you previously said that the biggest impact is coming from the fact that you can't do face-to-face meetings and go to trade shows and things like that. Once you can do a little bit more of that or you get the benefit of doing virtual meetings, could there be a snapback? Or do you think it's going to take some time? Michael D. Porcelain - Comtech Telecommunications Corp. - President & COO Well, we're thinking it's going to be a slow grind for the rest of the year. But these large opportunities that I mentioned earlier in the conference call, and there's more than one, they relate to the LEO market and the MEO market. And in fact, the GEO market as well. So there's -- we do -- I don't want to use the word game changer, but these are really large contracts. And it's possible that we'll we get awarded them this year. They're not really in our revenue guidance or our EBITDA thinking because we're being mindful of how long and binary some of these program awards could be. But those are the ones that were really jettison our business on an upward trajectory, and it would not just be for one quarter, it would be a multiyear type of situation. But the regular business that we're seeing now, yes, it's sluggish. And that's the way we see it. Let's see how people get the vaccines. Let's see how people get on planes. Let's see where money is being spent. It's -- we don't subscribe to the belief that things are going to turn over night, but maybe we'll be wrong and things will come back faster. But we're thinking it's going to be sluggish. Kyle P. McNealy - Jefferies LLC, Research Division - Equity Analyst And in the longer term, do you think the underlying growth rate in that market has changed at all versus pre COVID? Or once -- never minding how long the recovery takes, but once we kind of get the escape velocity, do you think it's the same growth rate versus pre COVID? Or is there any kind of long-term lasting impact from COVID that kind of weighs on the growth rate for satellite earth station? Michael D. Porcelain - Comtech Telecommunications Corp. - President & COO There's a possibility and our thinking that it could possibly have increased the long-term demand for the product. And we say that very sincerely because there's not -- what's been happening is, right, people have been using video across the world and using up their capacity and many states and countries have banned the upgrades right now, right? You can't go out to the field. They don't want anybody doing any upgrades on the system. So people are increasing capacity. So if people are going to work from home or from their offices remotely and do less traveling, that's going to result in an increased need to communicate video over satellite, and it's going to result in an increased need to backhaul video and mobile communications on the cellular network. So you can make a really strong, compelling argument, as I am, that it's going to actually result in an increase in demand in the long term and a faster growth rate than maybe what we would have thought 9 months ago. But we're not there yet at the peak to see it. But time will tell what will happen. But it certainly didn't result in a negative change in our view. And in fact, some of these large, big programs that we're talking about, what the COVID crisis has shown is the bigger the company you are, the -- you're a survivor. And these LEOs and GEOs are being supported by very large companies in the marketplace, and we think those programs are going to happen. 13 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 09, 2020 / 9:30PM, CMTL.OQ - Q1 2021 Comtech Telecommunications Corp Earnings Call Kyle P. McNealy - Jefferies LLC, Research Division - Equity Analyst Okay. Great. That's helpful. And one last one on the troposcatter contract with the Marines. Do you have any more visibility into the level of services that you might provide within that contract? I know that previously you had said that it's not certain yet, and it may -- you may deliver 30% to 50% of the total contract value, but it's really dependent on how much the prime contractor either allocates to you or asks you to do. Is there any more visibility now that we're a couple of quarters past when the contract was awarded? Michael D. Porcelain - Comtech Telecommunications Corp. - President & COO Yes, there's really been no change in our thinking on that program. We need to kind of do the initial deliveries and get them out there. There is opportunities for us to get design changes within the program with the end customer and as well as the -- our prime, but nothing really to talk about yet. Operator At this time, there are no further questions. I will now turn back over to our presenters for closing remarks. Actually, I do have one more question. Someone just queued up. We will take our next question. Unidentified Analyst This is Aditya on behalf of Michael Latimore. Could you hear me? Michael D. Porcelain - Comtech Telecommunications Corp. - President & COO Yes, we can hear you just fine. Unidentified Analyst All right. So my question to you is, do you face any supply chain difficulties due to the COVID situation? Michael D. Porcelain - Comtech Telecommunications Corp. - President & COO We have seen some minor supply chain issues, nothing that we would categorize as material, but we certainly have seen them, and we know we deal with them. They've caused some order delays and obviously some incremental expenses. But nothing that I would describe as material. Unidentified Analyst All right. All right. And do you foresee a lot more hirings in the next few quarters? Michael D. Porcelain - Comtech Telecommunications Corp. - President & COO Well, if we win some of these big contracts, yes, sure. But hey, we're always looking for great people to work for Comtech: engineers, software developers, production people, accountants. If you're a good person and you want to come to work for Comtech, give us a ring. 14 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 09, 2020 / 9:30PM, CMTL.OQ - Q1 2021 Comtech Telecommunications Corp Earnings Call Operator Now at this time, we do not have any further questions. I will now turn the program back over to our presenters for final closing remarks. Fred Kornberg - Comtech Telecommunications Corp. - Chairman & CEO Okay. Yes. I guess that's the end of today's call. Thank you again for joining us today, and we look forward to speaking with you again in March. Thank you very much. Operator This does conclude today's program. Thank you for your participation. You may disconnect at any time. DISCLAIMER Refinitiv reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes. In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized. THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES REFINITIV OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS. 2020, Refinitiv. All Rights Reserved. 13537468-2020-12-17T00:27:58.777 15 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 09, 2020 / 9:30PM, CMTL.OQ - Q1 2021 Comtech Telecommunications Corp Earnings Call
REFINITIV STREETEVENTS EDITED TRANSCRIPT APO.N - Apollo Global Management Inc at Goldman Sachs Financial Services Conference (Virtual) EVENT DATE/TIME: DECEMBER 09, 2020 / 6:20PM GMT REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS Leon David Black Apollo Global Management, Inc. - Founder, Chairman & CEO CONFERENCE CALL PARTICIPANTS Alexander Blostein Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - Lead Capital Markets Analyst PRESENTATION Alexander Blostein - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - Lead Capital Markets Analyst Well, good afternoon, everyone. For our next session, I'd like to welcome Leon Black, Chairman, Co-founder and CEO of Apollo. With $430 billion in AUM, Apollo remains one of the most consistent fee-related earnings growth stories in the space via its leading insurance partnerships, their credit platform, private equity and increasingly [realized] initiatives. Further, Apollo's flexible investment philosophy in private markets and unique origination capabilities position the firm well for both low interest rate environment as well as market volatility. We look forward to getting an update from Leon on today's investment landscape and how Apollo is positioned to sustain this type of growth momentum that we've seen from the business over the years. So Leon, thank you so much for joining us. Good to see you. Leon David Black - Apollo Global Management, Inc. - Founder, Chairman & CEO Very good to see you too, Alex, and nice to be back at Goldman, even on a virtual basis. It's always tough to follow my friend, Steve Schwarzman, but -- because he has built such an incredible firm. But you know what, we've built an incredible firm, too. So I'm very happy to be here today to talk about it with you all. QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS Alexander Blostein - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - Lead Capital Markets Analyst Perfect. Cool. Great. Great to hear that. So first, I wanted to start with the discussion around the investment landscape. Look, clearly, there's still many challenges in the real economy, but with prospects of a vaccine and what potentially could be a really sharp economic recovery, prices across various asset classes are really approaching record levels. As a value investor, how are you approaching this landscape, both from a private equity side as well as the credit side of the ledger? Leon David Black - Apollo Global Management, Inc. - Founder, Chairman & CEO Great question. We've been at this now for 30 years. We've gone through 4 cycles during that time. We've stayed a value investor during that period. It's worked very well for us. So we've zigged a little bit where others are zagging. And that's clearly been true in our PE business, which many of our peers are following a growth strategy and paying 11x for their companies and EBITDA and leveraging 6, 7x. We buy it around 6.5x, and we leverage 3.5 to 4x. The last 5 years, I think they've -- their strategies have worked very well. A low interest rate environment, a lot of growth, and it's worked out well for them. It's working out well for us, too. 2 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 09, 2020 / 6:20PM, APO.N - Apollo Global Management Inc at Goldman Sachs Financial Services Conference (Virtual) Clearly, we have to uncover a lot more rocks to be able to stick to that discipline. But we're really pretty much on target with our new Fund IX over the last couple of years, and we're about 40% invested. Clearly, Apollo is a lot more than PE today. PE is maybe 22% of the firm. Clearly, real assets, credit, which is huge for us, we're the largest alternative credit platform actually in the world at over $300 billion today. And insurance, which has been very high-growth for us, are also part of what we're about. So when you ask about the current environment, I think it is one that has a lot of contradictory things going on in it. The markets, in terms of jobs with the pandemic, we lost 22 million jobs. We've gotten half of that back. Certain industries have gotten clocked, whether they be in travel-related and hotels and airlines and certain consumer areas. And it's going to take time for those jobs to come back and for those industries to come back. Having said that, many industries have done very well. And clearly, the government did a fabulous job, and the Fed did a fabulous job, and the stimulus package was huge in the spring, and there's another one probably coming in the next few weeks or few months. So you have a combination today of stimulus, of accommodative Fed policies with very low interest rates with the vaccines coming, so there's a lot of reasons for the markets to be very positive, enthusiastic, buoyant, especially in those areas that weren't that affected by COVID, which may take a little time to come back. From an Apollo point of view, we just have so much going on that's really dynamic and positive right now, especially in credit and insurance, and in creating more origination platforms and creating so much of the virtual circle that we have at Apollo to service and finance companies, big and small, investment grade, noninvestment grade. So we're feeling pretty good even as a value investor in terms of the tailwinds we have at our back and what we're doing at Apollo. Alexander Blostein - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - Lead Capital Markets Analyst Got you. And we'll talk about a handful of these things. But maybe just to zone in on private equity specifically for one more second. One of the key pillars of investment style within private equity has always been its flexibility, right? I mean there are funds where you've done a lot of distressed and very little traditional deals and there are funds where it's been the opposite. Given that sort of flexibility, do you still expect to deploy a significant amount of dry powder from your existing funds of Fund IX into distressed opportunities? Or do you think those have largely diminished given all the liquidity that are out there in the system? And I guess, whether it's traditional LBOs or distressed, what sort of sectors and geographies are you finding most compelling from a risk-reward perspective within PE? Leon David Black - Apollo Global Management, Inc. - Founder, Chairman & CEO Well, I think that my answer to you would be, I think it would be medium on the spectrum. Back in '09, we backed up the trucks, and 65% of what we did was in distressed. And we put a huge amount of capital to work at that point. Fund VIII had less than 5% distressed. My guess is that Fund IX will be something in the 10% to 20%. The fact is the government did such a good job with stimulus that there really wasn't a large distressed reaction last March. I think you had a week of investment-grade distressed, and we put some real dollars to work then. I think that you've had, on the noninvestment-grade side, a little better than that. In fact, recently, we've done a number of distressed deals. Swissport, we're involved. Aeromexico, we're involved in. And I think, as I mentioned earlier, some of the industries that were more impacted will yield some distressed opportunities over the next 12 to 18 months because they're going to be slower to recover. Having said that, I don't think it's the floodgates opening up given the buoyancy in the markets and how much stimulus that there's been. 3 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 09, 2020 / 6:20PM, APO.N - Apollo Global Management Inc at Goldman Sachs Financial Services Conference (Virtual) Alexander Blostein - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - Lead Capital Markets Analyst Got it. But clearly, it sounds still like some stuff to do. So that's encouraging. Let's pivot a little bit and talk about fee-related earnings growth and AUM growth. At your Investor Day, which wasn't too long ago, but it feels like a long time ago, I guess, at this point. You highlighted some of your 5-year goals, which included grown fee-related earnings in sort of mid-teens on an annual basis and doubling AUM. Can you remind us again sort of where you stand in relation to those goals? And who's going to drive growth from this point forward? Leon David Black - Apollo Global Management, Inc. - Founder, Chairman & CEO Sure. I think back then, we had said our 5-year goal was to go from roughly $320 billion of AUM to $600 billion over 5 years. I'm happy to report that in the first year, the first quintile of that time period, we've actually accomplished about 35% of that goal. Clearly, the 2 transactions we did with VIVAT in The Netherlands as well as the Jackson deal with Prudential U.K. that produced about $75 billion of new assets under management. In addition to that, we've had organic growth of almost $20 billion. So in all, we've actually, in year 1, accomplished $100 million -- $100 billion, I should say, of that $280 billion goal. So I am confident -- and this is just my personal opinion, I'm not projecting for the company, but I feel pretty good that we'll end up surpassing what we said at that call last year, just given the fact that we are raising $15 billion to $20 billion a year. And in terms of new fundraising, if you just look at the organic growth that's there in so many of our products and insurance products as well as I think there's a lot of tailwind in terms of insurance M&A, I think that what we talked about last year is very much doable and then some. Alexander Blostein - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - Lead Capital Markets Analyst Great, great. Look, while we are on the topic of asset growth and fundraising, clearly, the Epstein matter has been top of mind for shareholders and LPs. Can you give us a sense of what the feedback has been to the Board's independent investigation? And how recent fundraising and near-term FRE growth may have been impacted by that? Leon David Black - Apollo Global Management, Inc. - Founder, Chairman & CEO Sure. Well, look, while I'm on, I should say, certainly, in hindsight, it was a terrible mistake to be dealing with Epstein. I didn't have the hindsight at the time. And given a lot of the people he was dealing with, who I respected, I gave him a second chance, but that was a mistake. Having said that, it's important to note that he did no business with Apollo. And frankly, I've never been accused of any wrongdoing in the matter. He did do some work for my family office in terms of tax planning and state planning, art structuring, philanthropy, and I paid him for that. All of that work was fully vetted by major law firms and accounting firms. There is a significant amount of backup materials substantiating that. And so I asked the independent Board members to hire outside counsel to verify basically everything I've said. That is an ongoing process right now. I've had no real contact with the independent directors or, as yet, the outside counsel. So I really cannot comment on where they are. Look, I feel very confident. I asked for the review. I know what the facts are and so let it play out. And my guess is they've been at this 6 weeks, so it'll probably take -- again, I don't want to speak for them, but we're hoping somewhere around year-end, we'll have the results of this. As to its impact, a lot of our investors have been fully comfortable doing a lot of business with us. And it really hasn't affected what we're doing in insurance and in most of our credit business. I'd say the biggest impact was on public pension funds who are under their own internal pressures. And they took the reasonable stance of saying, "Hey, let's pause vis-a-vis fundraising until we see the results of the review." So that's where things stand. I think, of note, we usually, as I said, we raised $15 billion to $20 billion a year on average. If it had no effect on fundraising, our revenue 4 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 09, 2020 / 6:20PM, APO.N - Apollo Global Management Inc at Goldman Sachs Financial Services Conference (Virtual) growth would be about 12%. If it had an effect, where we were unable to raise any new money in all of '21, which we certainly don't expect to happen, we would still have 7% to 9% revenue growth. And if it's half, it's about 10% revenue growth. But I think we're all waiting for the review to be finished and then the chips will fall where they are. Alexander Blostein - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - Lead Capital Markets Analyst Great. That's helpful context. So maybe shifting gears a little bit and talk about some of the building blocks of the fee-related earnings growth story. And I wanted to zone in on the build-out of the private equity business. In the past, you talked about diversifying Apollo's strategy when it comes to private equity away just from the flagship funds. We're seeing very clear traction from things like hybrid value, and it's now on its second vintage. Can you talk through what else you envisioned within private equity? How do you envision Apollo's private equity business growing from here outside of the flagship funds? Leon David Black - Apollo Global Management, Inc. - Founder, Chairman & CEO Sure. I think there are a number of areas. We have one of the largest private equity funds out there, which is about $25 billion. We really haven't, as some other firms have done, divided into geographies. So that kind of encompasses a lot of what we do in private equity. We did go out and start this hybrid value, as you mentioned. First fund was about $3 billion. We're hoping the next one will be more in the $5 billion range. We're going out and fundraising now. We have a semi-private equity, it's credit, it's real estate, it's private equity fund in Europe called ETF, and that has done very well. And we're out fundraising there. We have an impact fund that we're going out with now, which is private equity-related. We've done more -- we've done some SPACs, as you're aware, which will be related to much of what we're doing in private equity also. So that's where we are in private equity. I'd say the larger amount of growth has actually been in credit and in insurance. The other areas, I should say, in private equity, though, are more real assets-related. In fact, we make a distinction between private equity and real assets, but that also includes infrastructure, which we've got a lot more involved in the last year and then fundraising as well as real assets and real estate. Alexander Blostein - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - Lead Capital Markets Analyst Right. Well, you mentioned insurance. So obviously, let's talk about that a little bit. 2020 has been a very successful year for Apollo, for your insurance partners in terms of acquisitions, $45 billion VIVAT and $29 billion Jackson National. When you take a step back and you think about the sweet spot for Apollo-linked insurance deals, how would you characterize that? And also, how would you characterize your current acquisition pipeline between all the various insurance partnerships that you now have around the world? Leon David Black - Apollo Global Management, Inc. - Founder, Chairman & CEO Well, I love the position we have in insurance. I love it for a lot of reasons. One, it's permanent capital. And over 60% of the firm now is permanent capital, 90% actually is over 5 years in duration. So sticky capital is a very good thing. I also like the fact that my partner, Marc Rowan, has built this so over 13 years now, both in the U.S. and in Europe to really being around $240 billion of AUM, which is very, very significant. I love the fact that we have real, I think, competitive advantages. I know some of our peers and we're very flattered that they're following some of our strategies are now jumping in. But I think we've established a lot of competitive advantages. 5 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 09, 2020 / 6:20PM, APO.N - Apollo Global Management Inc at Goldman Sachs Financial Services Conference (Virtual) One, we're sitting with almost $90 billion of dry powder for acquisitions; two, 150 of our 500 investment professionals are in the FIG area; three, we've had a lot of experience with regulators, having done multiple transactions on both continents; and four, I'd say, the fact is we -- our hallmark or sweet spot, as you say, is doing complex transactions, not vanilla deals just based on price, but really being able to provide holistic solutions so that we can create win-win-wins. And when I talk about 3 wins, I mean, Athene and Athora, as the case may be. I mean Apollo, and most importantly, a win for the seller. And that's also a great advertising card. We did that with Voya. We've done that with Prudential. On the Jackson deal, we've been able to figure out ways to do things combining life annuities with variable annuities and setting up structures that make that work. I also like the fact that we have such a huge tailwind here because of low interest rates, you have a $10 trillion industry that really needs to shed assets. They can't create spreads the way they are structured. That is a terrific dynamic in terms of supply/demand. So even with a few of our peers getting in, there is more than enough for all of us. But probably the most important competitive edge we have is we've really created this virtual cycle I mentioned before, not only do we have the insurance companies, but we've set up sidecars, we have ADIP, which is a $4 billion, $5 billion entity that helps co-invest with Athene and Athora -- or Athene, I should say, to be able to buy assets. We now have ASOP, our $12 billion platform, where we can go out private credit-wise and finance large-cap companies because we have the pockets to put that in. And those pockets go from Athene and Athora to so many of the other origination platforms we've created at Apollo, whether it's in equipment finance or it's in aviation finance or ship financing, and we're creating more and more new platforms and originating them. So we're both growing our existing ones, and there are about 30 different ones, and we're creating new ones, which all really plays to being able to fund the veracious appetite that's out there, both by our insurance companies, Athene and Athora, but also the secular third parties, the sovereign funds, the pension funds in terms of this voracious appetite for yields right now. So you've seen some of the things we've done, whether it was funding noninvestment-grade companies like Albertsons, or doing a AA financing for [ADNOC], an Abu Dhabi real estate-related, where we really placed the whole $3.5 billion of that, both internally and syndicating it out to other third parties. So I'm very, very excited about where we are, who we are, what we've created, the current environment and what the future holds, vis--vis both insurance and private credit at this point. Alexander Blostein - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - Lead Capital Markets Analyst Got it. Makes sense. So we have about 5 minutes left, and I want to make sure we hit on some of the other dynamics, particularly with respect to capital returns and then maybe M&A. Now on the capital returns front, Apollo continues to pay out the vast majority of its distributable earnings and dividends to shareholders. You committed to a minimum dividend of $1.60 a share, which is obviously well covered by fee-related earnings. As you enter a realization cycle at some point, what are your thoughts with respect to using more of the kind of carry-related earnings towards share repurchases versus what some people might call more of a special dividend, right, as kind of some of these gains get crystallized and kind of how do you value the 2? Leon David Black - Apollo Global Management, Inc. - Founder, Chairman & CEO Well, I think you used the keyword earlier which is flexibility. I mean what we've committed is that we would dividend out $0.40 a quarter per share, and we feel very confident about that because that is generated through management fees, which is the bulk of our FRE. 6 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 09, 2020 / 6:20PM, APO.N - Apollo Global Management Inc at Goldman Sachs Financial Services Conference (Virtual) Now when there are performance fees and realizations, that can either be used as additional gravy above and beyond the $1.60, which we've done a lot in the past where we've dividended most of that out on a quarterly basis. It could be done as a special dividend, or it could be used for something opportunistic at the time. In case we want to be making an acquisition, we have a light balance sheet model, but when opportunities come up, that could be used for that. It could be used if our shares aren't trading well or as well as we'd like them to be. It could be used to buying shares. So what we've committed is the $0.40 per quarter backed up by management fees and FRE. And when performance fees come up, we like having the flexibility to choose at the time how that will be deployed. Alexander Blostein - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - Lead Capital Markets Analyst Got it. Understood. And then I guess, when it comes to M&A, specifically, Apollo has been sort of strategically acquisitive in the past, including some recent deals like the GE infrastructure portfolio, for instance. Are there areas within the firm that could benefit more from acquiring a strategy versus building it out organically? I know we've talked about real assets as a whole in the past. We talked about real estate in the past. Is there anything out there that you think you could significantly accelerate in other properties out there, given the dislocation we've sort of been in, in the last 12 months that could kind of help you get there a little faster? Leon David Black - Apollo Global Management, Inc. - Founder, Chairman & CEO Yes. Well, I think, again, it's about being opportunistic. You're right. We did [Teekay] finance from GE. We did infrastructure from GE. We created Haydock, which is equipment finance. We've just brought in a team for an impact investing, some of it internally, but some very good people from outside. Right now, we're -- we probably put $100 million to work; about 1/3 of that was put into creating new, whether it was large cap or infrastructure platforms; about 1/3 of it was to augment existing platforms; and about 1/3 was put into technology. So -- and then there are other opportunities that come up. As you know, a year ago, we increased significantly our ownership of Athene. So of course, there are new platforms in credits. We're looking at trade finance. If we find the right team, that could make a lot of sense. So all of the above. Alexander Blostein - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - Lead Capital Markets Analyst Great. Sounds good. Look, we have about 1 minute left on the clock. So I want to grab one of the questions maybe from our virtual audience, so to speak here. And this question is -- there's actually a few around realizations, but this one is really around Fund VIII. In the past, you expressed confidence in the ability to deliver 2x multiple of invested capital on Fund VIII. How have your holdings in Fund VIII performed relative to your expectations through the pandemic? And with improving macro conditions, are you still -- are you starting to see opportunities to monetize, I guess, some of these investments a little bit faster than maybe you had thought a few quarters ago? Leon David Black - Apollo Global Management, Inc. - Founder, Chairman & CEO Well, we feel good about Fund VIII. Our last quarter revenues, I guess, we're up 7%. EBITDA was up about 18%. We're at about 1.5 MOIC right now, and we feel confident that we'll get to 2 plus. And our history has always been in that zone. 7 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 09, 2020 / 6:20PM, APO.N - Apollo Global Management Inc at Goldman Sachs Financial Services Conference (Virtual) So I don't think we feel differently about Fund VIII than what we've done in the past. As to realizations, I can't promise you anything immediate. We will keep managing the fund as we've managed all other funds, which is to have realizations when we think they make the most sense. But we just reevaluated the fund. As I said, we're at 1.5. We think we'll get to over 2x, and that's where we are on it. Alexander Blostein - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - Lead Capital Markets Analyst Got it. Understood. Well, there's a few more, but unfortunately, we're out of time. So we're going to have to leave it there. Leon, thank you so much for joining the conference again and appreciate your support for the conference, of course, over the years. And we hope to see you again here next year, but this time, hopefully in person. Leon David Black - Apollo Global Management, Inc. - Founder, Chairman & CEO Alex, thank you, and we appreciate the relationship we've had for 30 years with Goldman. And wish you and everybody in the audience good health and happy holidays. Alexander Blostein - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - Lead Capital Markets Analyst Great. You as well. Thanks very much. Leon David Black - Apollo Global Management, Inc. - Founder, Chairman & CEO Take care. Bye. DISCLAIMER Refinitiv reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes. In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized. THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES REFINITIV OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS. 2020, Refinitiv. All Rights Reserved. 13537469-2020-12-09T20:05:40.207 8 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 09, 2020 / 6:20PM, APO.N - Apollo Global Management Inc at Goldman Sachs Financial Services Conference (Virtual)
REFINITIV STREETEVENTS EDITED TRANSCRIPT SRRA.OQ - Sierra Oncology Inc to Host KOL to Discuss Updated Phase 3 Myelofibrosis Data Presented at ASH - Conference Call EVENT DATE/TIME: DECEMBER 16, 2020 / 3:00PM GMT REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS Barbara Klencke Sierra Oncology, Inc. - Chief Development Officer Mark M. Kowalski Sierra Oncology, Inc. - Chief Medical Officer Stephen G. Dilly Sierra Oncology, Inc. - President, CEO & Director CONFERENCE CALL PARTICIPANTS Jay Olson Oppenheimer & Co. Inc., Research Division - Executive Director & Senior Analyst Maurice Thomas Raycroft Jefferies LLC, Research Division - Equity Analyst Jean-Jacques Kiladjian Ruben Mesa Sara Parigian LifeSci Advisors, LLC - VP of KOL Strategy & Management Srdan Verstovsek PRESENTATION Sara Parigian - LifeSci Advisors, LLC - VP of KOL Strategy & Management Good morning, and thank you for joining us on the Sierra Oncology KOL call. (Operator Instructions) As a reminder, this webinar is being recorded and a replay will be made available on the Sierra Oncology website following the event. I would now like to turn the call over to your host, Stephen Dilly, Chief Executive Officer of Sierra. Please go ahead, Stephen. Stephen G. Dilly - Sierra Oncology, Inc. - President, CEO & Director Thanks, Sara, and thanks particularly to everyone that's joining us today to hear about Sierra and momelotinib. Next slide, please. I'm going to be making and others are going to be making some forward-looking statements today. So please do take note of our safe harbor statement. If I could have the next slide, please. We've got a packed and exciting agenda today with 3 external speakers and our own Barbara Klencke, taking you through a lot of stuff that was presented recently at the American Society of Hematology meeting. So I don't want to get in the way of those exciting presentations. But I would like to say a few words about who we are at Sierra and what we do. So next slide, please. So we're taking an evidence-based approach to work out who therapies are for. And importantly, also who may be they're not for, where there's a better alternative. And this is really important to bring up when we're working in a field like myelofibrosis, which is increasingly crowded, with an entrenched agent that people love in ruxolitinib. In other words, we need to provide people with the reason to get excited about momelotinib, and you're going to hear some of that today. Next slide, please. The important thing to note is that momelotinib has 3 receptor targets, JAK1 and JAK2, like the other JAK inhibitors, but also ACVR1. And what we're doing is really asking the question specifically, are there patients where this is a really good thing and patients where it's a less good idea. In other words, what's our differentiated profile. And you're going to hear some really exciting first insights into that in the presentation by Dr. Kiladjian about patients with different baseline platelet profiles, but expect more of the same to come in because what we're trying to say is we have a very good drug potentially for myelofibrosis, but it's particularly good in this group of patients as a starting point. 2 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 16, 2020 / 3:00PM, SRRA.OQ - Sierra Oncology Inc to Host KOL to Discuss Updated Phase 3 Myelofibrosis Data Presented at ASH - Conference Call We are right in the middle of our Phase III MOMENTUM study. We're expecting results in the first half of 2022. We have the luxury of a database of more than 800 myelofibrosis patients, which leads us to presentations like today. We believe we have an attractive commercial opportunity and increasingly, we've got the resources to take advantage of that with an experienced management team funding through pivotal data. And we've got some other stuff in our pipeline at the right time we might turn some attention to. So next slide, please. Here's our news flow. We really are super excited about the recent presentations at ASH that you're going to hear more about today. And then moving into next year, next year is going to be a huge year for us at Sierra because, first of all, at some stage, we're going to be announcing completion of enrollment into the MOMENTUM trial and at that point, it's a 6-month study, you can add 6 months plus a few months for us to process the data and be looking at top line data in that first part of 2022. In the middle of the year, we'll have further interesting analyses at the EHA meeting around that time. Now I have to point out that those 2 lines meeting exactly in the middle of June 2021 is an accidental graphics, that is not a prediction, okay? Sometime in mid-2021, we will complete enrollment. As we move into 2022, we'll see top line data. And then a few months after that, we expect to file an NDA with the FDA for approval. And in Europe, possibly a few months after that. And that should lead to, all things being positive, approval and commercialization in 2023, which is really not that far away. Next slide, please. So right now, we at Sierra are maniacally focused on successful completion of the MOMENTUM clinical trial. This is a very high-touch study. It makes a huge difference to look at patient quality, data quality, keeping patients in the study, making sure we're acquiring the endpoints that we need. This is a huge focus of the company right now. Increasingly, as we get confident, we've got that in good shape. Our attention moves to the regulatory and commercial execution and preparation. Again, these are areas we're doing an extremely good job and we'll make a big difference because the regulatory strategy is important, how do we get the appropriate label for momelotinib so it can be used in the best possible way. And how do we introduce it to the market in the most efficacious way. And then finally, once that is nailed down, we can start thinking about the future bigger potential. We believe we have an agent with particular utility in combination because of its likely ease of use. And then -- and only then we turn our mind to additional things coming into the pipeline. So that's who we are. It's a very focused story right now. We're super excited. And at this point, next slide, please, I'm going to hand over to Dr. Barb Klencke, our Chief Development Officer, who's going to give you a more detailed look at myelofibrosis and momelotinib in particular. Thank you. Barbara Klencke - Sierra Oncology, Inc. - Chief Development Officer Well, thank you, Stephen. Good morning, everyone. So today, I'm going to share a bit of background information on myelofibrosis as well as our investigational agent, momelotinib, which is a JAK1, JAK2 and ACVR1 inhibitor, which is in -- currently in Phase III clinical trial development. We'll talk about that in a few minutes, though, after I cover the background. I'll do so rather quickly, though, because I do want to get on to allowing our 3 global myelofibrosis experts to delve deeply into some recently reported momelotinib data. Next slide. So myelofibrosis is a rare bone marrow cancer. Common manifestations of disease include constitutional symptoms, an enlarged spleen and progressive anemia. The only curative therapy is an allo stem cell transplant, but this is an appropriate treatment option only for a small minority of patients. JAK inhibitors are the mainstay of treatment. But the approved JAK inhibitors address spleen and symptoms, but not the anemia because they themselves can lead to myelosuppression. Dose reductions are common and some patients never receive a JAK inhibitor due to low platelet counts or severe anemia. Next slide, please. Despite the availability of current treatments, multiple unmet medical needs remain. In particular, improved survival, treatments that improve or address anemia and transfusion dependency, and treatments that really provide a substantial durability of effect are 3 of the most important needs amongst the number of others. Next slide, please. Myelofibrosis is a rare condition with about 18,000 patients living with this diagnosis in the U.S. Hematologists and oncologists primarily manage the disease locally in communities. Medicare is the primary payer and currently approved JAK inhibitors are priced approximately $14,000 to $21,000 per month. 3 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 16, 2020 / 3:00PM, SRRA.OQ - Sierra Oncology Inc to Host KOL to Discuss Updated Phase 3 Myelofibrosis Data Presented at ASH - Conference Call Next slide. There's a number of treatments -- there's a number of factors that need to be considered when making treatment decisions. For the last 10 years, there's been one choice for physicians. As more agents become available, there'll be an opportunity to make more subtle considerations for which treatments might be ideal for which patient. In the future, the presence of severe anemia and/or thrombocytopenia may well determine the choice of treatment. When momelotinib becomes available as a treatment options, these factors could really become core treatment considerations. As a community, we'll be able to customize treatment options rather than relying on a single product to treat everyone. Next slide, please. Anemia is a common concern of presentation, and it generally progresses over time, either due to the disease and often as a result of treatment with other JAK inhibitors. Not everyone's anemic, but the majority of patients with myelofibrosis do suffer from anemia. Severe anemia has a significant impact on quality of life and on prognosis, and is generally managed with repeated blood transfusions, often required every few weeks. So clearly, better treatments for anemic patients are needed. Next slide. Anemia of myelofibrosis is multifactorial. But myelofibrosis due to a constitutive activation of the JAK-STAT pathway is, by nature, a very inflammatory condition. There's thus a major component of what's turned anemia of inflammation that contributes to the anemia of myelofibrosis. This anemia of inflammation is driven by high hepcidin levels, hepcidin being a hormone that controls iron homeostasis. High levels of hepcidin restrict the availability of iron, which suppresses the body's ability to make new blood cells. Both anemia and elevated hepcidin levels are indicative of poor survival and you can see this illustrated on the 2 curves. On the left, severe anemia is often associated with the survival of just a couple of years, very similar to that prognostic indicated by high hepcidin levels. Next slide. So now let's discuss momelotinib, a JAK1, JAK2 and ACVR1 inhibitor. On the next slide, we again mention the 3 major disease manifestations, constitutional symptoms, an enlarged spleen and progressive anemia. Targeting the JAK-STAT pathway has been shown to improve symptoms in splenomegaly, but it alone cannot address the burden of anemia. Currently, approved JAK inhibitors, as I said, are myelosuppressive, thus worsening anemia over time. What makes momelotinib different is that it also inhibits or targets ACVR1 and this can improve hepcidin levels, which increase hemoglobin levels and can improve anemia and transfusion requirements. On the next slide, we go through our current and previous development program. SIMPLIFY-1 and SIMPLIFY-2 are 2 fully completed Phase III trials. From these trials, we've had a wealth of information and data that have led to a better understanding of momelotinib and have helped us design the currently ongoing MOMENTUM trial. This is a Phase III registration-enabling trial, and we'll go through the design in a moment. We also have an Extended Access program, which is a rollover protocol for patients who have been on these -- the prior SIMPLIFY studies and prior Phase II studies. And remarkably, we now have patients who have been treated for 10 years who remain on daily momelotinib on an ongoing basis. Let's go on the next slide, and this covers the ongoing Phase III MOMENTUM study design. Patients are randomized to either momelotinib or danazol, given for a randomized treatment period of 24 weeks, at which time they may cross over to momelotinib or if they've been randomized to momelotinib, to continue. The primary endpoint is total symptom score at week 24. Secondary endpoints are transfusion independence and splenic response rate, both measured at week 24. We anticipate completion of enrollment in the middle of 2021 with top line data to follow in the first half of 2022. On the next study -- on the next slide, today, we'll spend a bit -- the rest of our time really delving into previously reported and recently reported data from the SIMPLIFY studies. As I said, these outputs, the outcomes from these studies have really helped us design a very robust MOMENTUM study. Here, you see the designs of both SIMPLIFY-1 and SIMPLIFY-2, very parallel studies conducted at the same time. SIMPLIFY-1 in the JAK-naive patient population, JAK-treated patients, previously treated patients in SIMPLIFY-2. Both studies examined momelotinib versus either ruxolitinib in SIMPLIFY-1 or best available therapy in SIMPLIFY-2, which ended up being ruxolitinib in 88% of patients. Both of these studies had a 24-week randomized treatment phase and a long-term extension of open-label momelotinib. The primary endpoint for both studies was splenic response. Secondary endpoints of total symptom score and transfusion independence. SIMPLIFY-1 in the front line JAK inhibitor naive population compared momelotinib to ruxolitinib in 432 patients. Patients must have had a baseline platelet count of at least 50,000, whereas SIMPLIFY-2 had no lower limit on the platelets. 4 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 16, 2020 / 3:00PM, SRRA.OQ - Sierra Oncology Inc to Host KOL to Discuss Updated Phase 3 Myelofibrosis Data Presented at ASH - Conference Call All right. Next slide. Before I turn the presentation over to Dr. Mesa, I'll just take one moment to report -- to describe one aspect of the previously reported data, and that is the safety data. Notably, safety for momelotinib is generally similar to ruxolitinib during that 24-week double-blind period. Grade 3 and Grade 4 adverse events are very low for momelotinib, whereas anemia and thrombocytopenia were more common with ruxolitinib. Lower grade nausea is more common with momelotinib and a variety of low-grade events led to a higher early withdrawal rate from momelotinib in SIMPLIFY-1. Next slide. I'd now like to introduce you to Dr. Ruben Mesa. He's the Director of the UT Health San Antonio, MD Anderson Cancer Center. He's been the principal investigator of more than 70 trials, including investigator -- the principal investigator of SIMPLIFY-1, and importantly, a co-PI of our MOMENTUM trial. Today, he's going to speak to you about data from the SIMPLIFY studies as presented at previous meetings, including the ASH 2019 meeting and this year's European Hematology Association Meeting. Ruben, I'll turn it over to you. Ruben Mesa Well, thank you for the introductions, Barb. Good morning to everyone. Excited to be here and share these experiences. I've been pleased to be involved with the development of this [agent] really from its most early inceptions and the early trials out when I was at Mayo Clinic. Today, I'm pleased to provide an overview of the SIMPLIFY-1 and SIMPLIFY-2 trial designs as well as the previously reported safety, efficacy and importantly, the dose intensity data for momelotinib. These data were previously presented at the EHA meeting in June of 2020 virtually, as well as the ASH meeting last December. So next slide, please. Now it has been recognized for some time that momelotinib has a unique ability to improve the anemia and transfusion dependency in patients suffering from myelofibrosis. The mechanism for this anemia benefit is also now understood and likely relates momelotinib's ability to acutely and chronically lower hepcidin levels via its inhibition of ACVR1. As shown in the left figure, SIMPLIFY-1 patients treated with momelotinib experienced a rapid increase in hemoglobin, which is maintained over time. In contrast, there is a significant decrease in hemoglobin for patients receiving ruxolitinib. Now patients who crossed over from ruxolitinib to momelotinib in the extended treatment phase of SIMPLIFY-1 showed a sustained mean hemoglobin increase at 2 or above baseline levels. So you see that nice increase in that figure. What may not be as widely appreciated is that momelotinib also has a different effect on the platelet count as well as hemoglobin levels. As shown on the right figure, the platelet count is generally fairly stable in patients treated with momelotinib in contrast with a significant decline in platelet counts in patients treated with ruxolitinib, as was seen in the double-blind treatment period in SIMPLIFY-1. The mean platelet levels increased in patients who crossed over from ruxolitinib to momelotinib in the extended treatment phase, as you see on this figure. Next slide, please. Now these were presented at EHA 2020 regarding the transfusion burden. And this increase in hemoglobin was associated with a clinically relevant reduction in red blood cell transfusions. I presented this data at last year's ASH conference and the figure on the right shows a relative transfusion burden for patients randomized to momelotinib in blue versus ruxolitinib in red in SIMPLIFY-1. This model incorporated the baseline characteristics as co-variants and demonstrates that the average patient received twice as many red blood cell transfusions on ruxolitinib at any time point compared to those receiving momelotinib. That is the reduction in the need for transfusion is evident through and after treatment initiation and continues to accumulate over time. Next slide, please. Now another aspect of the safety profile of momelotinib that was reported earlier this year at EHA is the long-term safety from the SIMPLIFY studies. As Dr. Klencke mentioned earlier, there are several patients from the early Phase II experience with momelotinib who continue to receive treatment for more than 10 years now, and I've actually treated some of those very patients. Nearly 90 patients from the SIMPLIFY studies continue to receive momelotinib therapy, many of whom have now been on treatment for more than 5 years. In this table, we show the rate of common adverse events during the randomized treatment phase for patients in the momelotinib arm compared to the ruxolitinib arm that was shown by Barb earlier today. What is also shown in this table in the green column are that the rates of common adverse events from a recent updated analysis where we wanted to look at the safety of long-term dosing. In total, 441 -- or 411, I should say, of the 432 patients who enrolled and SIMPLIFY-1 received momelotinib 5 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 16, 2020 / 3:00PM, SRRA.OQ - Sierra Oncology Inc to Host KOL to Discuss Updated Phase 3 Myelofibrosis Data Presented at ASH - Conference Call either because they were randomized to that arm originally or because they had initiated momelotinib after a crossover after completing 24 weeks on the ruxolitinib treatment arm. Notably, the rate of these common adverse events was only slightly higher despite this much longer duration of treatment and followup. No new safety signals or cumulative toxicity were observed during this extended momelotinib dosing. Next slide, please. Finally, we examined dose intensity of momelotinib in the 2 SIMPLIFY studies for the abstract from this year's EHA meeting. The average dose intensity was calculated on a weekly basis for all patients who remain on treatment at each week and is displayed as a vertical line representing the dose intensity for every week during the 24-week randomized treatment period as well as for the next 24 weeks of extended momelotinib treatment. The deeper the color, whether that be blue or gray, represents higher dose intensity. The top figure shows that all SIMPLIFY-1 patients randomized to momelotinib initiated therapy at the maximum recommended dose of 200 milligrams daily, as shown by the blue bars. High momelotinib dose intensity was then maintained throughout the 24-week randomized period and beyond the extended treatment with generally about 85% of active patients being able to remain on full doses of momelotinib. The mean daily dose was about 90% of the recommended dose throughout both the randomized and the extended treatment periods. By contrast, the starting dose of ruxolitinib is dictated by the platelet count. Less than 60% of the ruxolitinib patients in SIMPLIFY-1 were able to receive 20 milligrams twice daily as their initial ruxolitinib dose. An ongoing ruxolitinib dose intensity was further compromised over the 24-week treatment period, generally because of emerging thrombocytopenia. Despite the preponderance of these ruxolitinib dose reductions, patients who switched from ruxolitinib to momelotinib were able to achieve sustained high-dose intensity on momelotinib through the extended treatment phase. Next slide, please. So overall, these findings are consistent with momelotinib's differentiated pharmacological and clinical profile as an inhibitor of JAK1, JAK2 and ACVR1. Momelotinib appears to have a unique ability to increase hemoglobin levels, maintain platelet counts and decrease transfusion burden for myelofibrosis patients. The large majority of patients are able to receive full dose intensity of momelotinib during the extended treatment duration. Importantly, no new safety signals or cumulative toxicity were observed during extended momelotinib dosing. It seems quite possible that the ability to maintain platelet counts while also delivering full dose therapy that contribute to the ability to achieve such durability of dosing as well as the ability to achieve good outcomes with momelotinib irrespective of the patient's baseline platelet count, as my friend and colleague, Dr. Kiladjian will describe next. Thank you. Barbara Klencke - Sierra Oncology, Inc. - Chief Development Officer Thank you, Ruben. It's now my pleasure to introduce you to Dr. Jean-Jacques Kiladjian. Dr. Kiladjian is a professor of clinical pharmacology at Paris Diderot University. He's a consultant hematologist and headed the Clinical Investigation Center at St. Louis Hospital in Paris. Last week, Dr. Kiladjian presented the efficacy results of the SIMPLIFY-1 and SIMPLIFY-2 studies as they relate to the baseline platelet counts of patients enrolled to that study. So today, he'll go through that data with you. Dr. Kiladjian? Jean-Jacques Kiladjian Thank you, Barbara. Good morning, everyone. As Barbara said, I will show you now for SIMPLIFY trials and analysis, retrospective analysis we conducted for the week 24 outcomes including the clinic response, the symptom response, the rate of transfusion independence in patients with intermediate and high-risk myelofibrosis based on their baseline platelet counts. Next slide, please. So this is the title of the poster. Next, please. So the next 3 slides present efficacy outcomes for SIMPLIFY-1 and SIMPLIFY-2 for 3 groups defined by their baseline platelet count, at and below 150,000, between 150,000 and 300,000 and above 300,000. Here, Figure 1a shows transfusion independence rate for patients in SIMPLIFY-1. As you can see, momelotinib treatment elicited a higher and generally consistent transfusion independence response rate in each baseline platelet strata compared to ruxolitinib. As you can see on the top of this figure, the overall transfusion independence rate was 67% in the momelotinib arm and 49% in the ruxolitinib arm. In each of the 3 groups, defined by their baseline platelet count, momelotinib treatment elicited 6 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 16, 2020 / 3:00PM, SRRA.OQ - Sierra Oncology Inc to Host KOL to Discuss Updated Phase 3 Myelofibrosis Data Presented at ASH - Conference Call a higher transfusion independence response rate compared to ruxolitinib with TI rates for momelotinib ranging from 62% to 72% across the pre platelet strata in SIMPLIFY-1. On the right, you can see in Figure 1b, the transfusion independence response rate for patients in SIMPLIFY-2, which were, overall, 44% in the momelotinib arm and 21% in the best available therapy arm. In both studies, the transfusion independence rate in the momelotinib arm was preserved in patients with low platelet count. Next slide, please. Here, we compare the splenic response rate by baseline platelet strata. In Figure 1c, we see splenic response rates were maintained in momelotinib patients in all baseline platelet strata in SIMPLIFY-1, whereas ruxolitinib patients saw a markedly reduced response rate in patients with lower baseline platelet counts at study entry. Figure 1d shows the lowest splenic response rate for all patients groups in SIMPLIFY-2, consistent, indeed, with the lack of mandatory washout from prior JAK inhibitor therapy in this study. Next slide, please. Here, we can see the response for the symptoms using the Total Symptom Score, or TSS, response rate. In patients with lower baseline platelets in SIMPLIFY-1 on the left, the TSS response rate was again maintained with momelotinib. In comparison, TSS response rate decreased in ruxolitinib treated patients with low baseline platelets. In SIMPLIFY-2 in Figure 1f, momelotinib's TSS response rate were preserved across platelet strata and were higher compared to ruxolitinib in all strata, consistent with the TSS response rates in the overall population, as you can see on the top of this figure, overall, 26% for momelotinib compared to 6% for the BAT, best available therapy, arm. Next slide, please. So in summary, the SIMPLIFY-1 at week 24 data show and teaches that for patients who have less than 150,000 platelets at study entry, momelotinib achieved substantially higher transfusion independence and splenic response rates and similar symptomatic response rates compared to ruxolitinib. For patients with baseline platelets between 150,000 and 300,000, generally, similar splenic and symptom response rates were achieved with both momelotinib and ruxolitinib, while there was a higher transfusion independence with momelotinib. For patients with more than 300,000 platelet at baseline, higher splenic and symptom response rates were achieved with ruxolitinib, although transfusion independence remained higher with momelotinib. In SIMPLIFY-2, momelotinib response rates for the 3 end points remain very consistent with the overall intention to treat response rates achieved with momelotinib in patients whose baseline platelets were below 150,000. And in addition, momelotinib's benefits were also preserved in patients whose baseline platelet accounts were under 100,000. Next slide, please. In conclusion, this retrospective analysis of data from the SIMPLIFY studies demonstrate that momelotinib's activity profile does not appear to be affected by baseline platelet count, while in contrast, activity with ruxolitinib declined in patients with lower baseline platelet count. The benefit profile -- the benefit risk profile of momelotinib relative to ruxolitinib is comparable or favorable for momelotinib in JAK inhibitor-naive patients whose baseline platelets is below 300,000. So in my personal opinion, these data are probably especially relevant in the JAK inhibitor-naive setting. Should momelotinib become approved and available for patients who previously treated or not treated with JAK inhibitor, patients will have a variety of treatment option and the ability to individualize treatment decisions based on factors such as presence of anemia or pretreatment platelet count will likely improve treatment outcome for our patients. Thank you. Barbara Klencke - Sierra Oncology, Inc. - Chief Development Officer Thank you. Very good. So thank you, Dr. Kiladjian. I'd now like to welcome Dr. Srdan Verstovsek to the virtual floor. Dr. Verstovsek is a professor of medicine and hematologist-oncologist at the MD Anderson Cancer center. He has led more than 60 clinical trials of MPN drug candidates and is the co-PI of the MOMENTUM study. Last week, Dr. Verstovsek gave an oral presentation, highlighting the long-term outcomes including overall survival for momelotinib as reported -- as demonstrated from the SIMPLIFY-1 and SIMPLIFY-2 clinical studies. So he'll share that data with you today at this point. Serge, I'll hand it to you. Srdan Verstovsek Thank you, Barb, and good morning, everybody. Thank you for joining on today's call. 7 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 16, 2020 / 3:00PM, SRRA.OQ - Sierra Oncology Inc to Host KOL to Discuss Updated Phase 3 Myelofibrosis Data Presented at ASH - Conference Call Let's go to the next slide, please. This is the title slide. So it is my pleasure now to present data from our American Society of Hematology oral presentation entitled, as you see, Robust Overall Survival and Sustained Efficacy Outcomes During Long-term Exposure to momelotinib in JAK Inhibitor-naive and Previously JAK Inhibitor Treated Intermediate and High-risk Myelofibrosis Patients. The SIMPLIFY-1 and SIMPLIFY-2 Phase III studies were both considered complete last year after patients who remained on extended momelotinib therapy were transferred into the rollover protocol, as described before, referred to as the Extended Access Program. We then conducted a prespecified analysis of the duration of transfusion independence, duration of splenic response and overall survival of the final data, which is very important and presented by me today to you. So next slide, please. The previously reported noninferior landmark week 24 splenic response for momelotinib and ruxolitinib is shown in the bar graph at the lower left of this slide. With further follow-up beyond week 24, 40% of momelotinib treated patients achieved a splenic response at any time during SIMPLIFY-1. Moreover, this splenic response was durable with median time to loss of response not reached for subject regardless of whether they were initially randomized to momelotinib or initially randomized to ruxolitinib and then crossed over to momelotinib at week 24. This analysis includes more than 3 years of follow-up to remember that important information. Next slide, please. Now the following 2 slides present final analysis of the duration of transfusion independence for the 2 SIMPLIFY studies. As previously reported, the rate of transfusion independence in SIMPLIFY-1 was nominally higher in momelotinib subjects compared to those randomized to ruxolitinib at 67% and 49%, respectively. Now for subjects who achieved transfusion independence for the 12-week or longer at any time during the study, the duration of transfusion independence calculates from the end of the 12-week period for the first RBC transfusion or hemoglobin less than 8, is shown here. The median time to loss of transfusion independence was not reached in SIMPLIFY-1 with more than 3 years follow-up. Transfusion independence was seen in subjects initially randomized to momelotinib and those randomized to ruxolitinib who then crossed over to momelotinib at week 24. This suggests that momelotinib therapy elicits and maintains durable transfusion independence. Next slide, please. Transfusion independence was also durable when analyzed in SIMPLIFY-2. The same type of analysis was applied here. This is a population of patients previously exposed to ruxolitinib, remember that. At week 24, the transfusion independence response rate for the momelotinib arm was 43% compared to 21% in the best available therapy arm. Transfusion independence was also durable in this study as well, as I show for the previous study. Next slide, please. Now the following 2 slides present final overall survival data for the SIMPLIFY studies by [low graph] analysis. Typically, when I see patients in my clinic for the first time, I give them a reality of what I am trying to achieve. I'm trying to achieve control of the signs and symptoms of the disease, control the spleen, symptoms and anemia, and I like them to live as long as possible with the control of the signs and symptoms of the disease. This is what I'm talking about here. This slide displays the final overall survival data for JAK-naive patients in SIMPLIFY-1. Consistent with the known survival impact of the JAK inhibitors in JAK inhibitor-naive patients as described previously for ruxolitinib, robust overall survival was observed in both treatment arms in the SIMPLIFY-1 study. Median overall survival was 53 months in ruxolitinib to momelotinib crossover patients and not reached in originally momelotinib randomized patients. Recall that all subjects were allowed to receive open-label momelotinib for an extended duration after the end of the 24-week randomized treatment period. Therefore, this durable survival reflects momelotinib benefit on extended treatment with momelotinib or crossover to momelotinib regardless of the starting therapy. Next slide, please. In patients who have previously received ruxolitinib, overall survival is generally quite short, this is very well known, indicating a substantial unmet medical need for safe and efficacious therapy in myelofibrosis patients previously treated with ruxolitinib. In SIMPLIFY-2, a robust median overall survival of 37.5 months was observed for the best available therapy, predominantly ruxolitinib to momelotinib crossover arm and 34.3 months for originally momelotinib randomized patients. The durable survival achieved here again reflects momelotinib benefit as patients in both treatment arms could receive extended treatment with momelotinib after completing 24-week randomized treatment period. These overall survival results are among the best survival reported in patients who have been previously treated with ruxolitinib. Next slide, please. So in conclusion, this analysis demonstrated a robust overall survival on momelotinib in both JAK inhibitor naive and previously ruxolitinib treated patients. In particular, the median overall survival of 34.3 and 37.5 months observed in the 2 treatment arms or SIMPLIFY-2 compare very favorably with overall survival previously reported in patients who have previously received JAK inhibitor therapy. 8 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 16, 2020 / 3:00PM, SRRA.OQ - Sierra Oncology Inc to Host KOL to Discuss Updated Phase 3 Myelofibrosis Data Presented at ASH - Conference Call So thank you very much for your attention. Barbara Klencke - Sierra Oncology, Inc. - Chief Development Officer Thank you. So thank you, Serge. That concludes the formal presentation portion of today's discussion. But now I'd like to ask our 3 myelofibrosis experts, Ruben, Jean-Jacques, Serge, to join me on the screen for a few minutes. I'll open with a few questions to the panel, and then we'll open it up for wider questions from the audience. QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS Barbara Klencke - Sierra Oncology, Inc. - Chief Development Officer Maybe I'll start with -- continue to think about this overall survival data that Serge just presented. And maybe Jean-Jacques, let me ask you, your thoughts about survival as an important endpoint in myelofibrosis. Classically, we've talked about spleen control and other symptoms. So what's the role of overall survival? And how do you -- what are your view of the data that we just discussed? Jean-Jacques Kiladjian Of course, that's the main question of our patients when we see them for the first time or when they come for referral. And as Dr. Verstovsek nicely highlighted, the patients who failed on ruxolitinib are usually very worried about the alternatives and what can be their survival since they know that this is really a poor prognostic factor. So the data we have from the SIMPLIFY studies are really very important, I think, in that view, because we can offer, not yet, at least in France, but as soon as momelotinib hopefully will be available in clinical practice, we may offer an option with well-defined and demonstrated benefit in overall survival. And I think this will be really a major improvement for our patients. Barbara Klencke - Sierra Oncology, Inc. - Chief Development Officer Thank you. Maybe I'll ask this question of all 3 of you because your -- you have all had the opportunity to treat patients with momelotinib throughout the development story of this agent. So maybe I can ask each of you to think -- to say a few words about the unmet medical needs in myelofibrosis, how momelotinib might address those particular needs, and what your patients have experienced. Maybe Ruben, I'll start with you. Ruben Mesa Sure. So I haven't been involved really with all the drugs that have been in development. I just have my colleagues. I'm deeply excited about momelotinib in that the issue of anemia is a significant unmet medical need, but it's not only about anemia. What's nice about the responses that we're seeing is that it's really hitting 3 of the most impactful areas that impact the patient. Anemia, their symptoms and their spleen. That the trio really is important in terms of a comprehensive therapy. I do think that translates into patients not only living better, but living longer. So I do think the survival benefit is genuine. And I've seen it personally, that I think that -- as I do think that it is real in subsets of patients for ruxolitinib, I think it's very real with momelotinib as well in terms of first-hand experience. And I think that the parameters that we measure are both evidence of clinical benefit, but also reflect that the activity of an agent like this really has a favorable impact on the patient overall. Barbara Klencke - Sierra Oncology, Inc. - Chief Development Officer Thank you. How about Serge? Do you have some -- anything from your personal experience in your patients that you've seen? And how do you feel momelotinib may fit into the future armamentarium of treatment options for patients? 9 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 16, 2020 / 3:00PM, SRRA.OQ - Sierra Oncology Inc to Host KOL to Discuss Updated Phase 3 Myelofibrosis Data Presented at ASH - Conference Call Srdan Verstovsek I have, like Ruben, been involved with momelotinib from the very beginning, running the Phase I study with it and I have a long-term, very good experience with it in terms of all types of the clinical benefits that Ruben has described very well. We struggle with the ability or inability to control the spleen and the symptoms and anemia, which are 3 major problems that we face in daily management of patients with myelofibrosis, and we hardly ever talk about the survival benefit of any medications. We have evidence of the survival benefit on ruxolitinib. I'm very happy to see the survival benefit significantly suggested by the data today on the momelotinib. I'm not surprised. But the trio of the benefits that one drug can provide is quite different than any other attempts that we have so far, and I have been around about 20 years. So in 1 pill, we have medications that can possibly counteract the spleen and the symptoms and the anemia in a large proportion of the patients and with a control prolonged life of the patient. So when it comes to -- and hopefully, the momelotinib will be used in a normal community setting once it gets approved, I think that will be the, obviously, the treatment of choice in a second-line setting where the medication is being developed in MOMENTUM studies. But there is certainly, and I agree with Jean-Jacques, a group of patients in the frontline setting, particularly those that are anemic with the spleen and symptoms that may be a good candidate for momelotinib, even in upfront attempts to control overall signs and symptoms with 1 daily, single medication without much of the difficulties. It's very simple. It is safe. And as we now know, works for a very long period of time. Barbara Klencke - Sierra Oncology, Inc. - Chief Development Officer Excellent thoughts. Jean-Jacques? Jean-Jacques Kiladjian Yes, I fully agree. And I have the same experience than Serge and Ruben. Maybe just what impressed me the most when I used this drug in comparison with the previous experience with ruxolitinib was the anemia response, because it's not when the patient responds to momelotinib on anemia, it's not just 1 or 2 grams of more hemoglobin, et cetera. It's really very fast and very important increase of hemoglobin that almost becomes normal again, although those patients who are suffering of anemia were transfused, sometimes failed on EPO or erythropoietin-stimulating agents, et cetera. So this was, I think, for me, the most striking difference with the other JAK inhibitors I have used. And of course, in addition, all the benefits that Serge and Ruben highlighted before. But this was really particular to this drug for me. Barbara Klencke - Sierra Oncology, Inc. - Chief Development Officer So we're just coming out of a really exciting ASH this year. The number of drugs in development for myelofibrosis, really an exciting opportunity to see new therapies starting to become either tested in Phase III studies, combined in different ways, et cetera. So where do we think the future of myelofibrosis treatment is going? And how might momelotinib play a role? And I'm, in particular, wondering what you think about the opportunity for combination treatments. Maybe Ruben, do you have any thoughts? Do you want to comment on that? Ruben Mesa So I do think we're likely evolving to a situation where we'll be talking about JAK inhibition as a base and the addition of other agents, I would speculate that have alternative mechanisms of action added on, either at the time of diagnosis, perhaps in a subset or after some period of time. I do think momelotinib would be well positioned for those combinations because of the ability to maintain dose intensity, the favorable profile as it relates to platelets that many of the other agents that are interesting. The Constellation drug, the BET inhibitor, Navitoclax, IMG-7289, they all can cause thrombocytopenia. So I think the base of what the JAK inhibitor is in those patients who do get a combination, I think, will be important. Likewise, the issue of anemia is an important one that, again, these other drugs may not necessarily kind of bring to the table. So I suspect, as opposed to the drug development world where it's either one or the other, I suspect it will be more about combos. When does a combination 10 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 16, 2020 / 3:00PM, SRRA.OQ - Sierra Oncology Inc to Host KOL to Discuss Updated Phase 3 Myelofibrosis Data Presented at ASH - Conference Call start? I don't think that it will be in all patients, I suspect it will be more likely in a subset, either because of a molecular feature or after a period of time in suboptimal response. But I do think your agent is well positioned to be that base for a significant number of those individuals. Barbara Klencke - Sierra Oncology, Inc. - Chief Development Officer Very good. I'm wondering if we should open it up for questions from the audience. Sara Parigian - LifeSci Advisors, LLC - VP of KOL Strategy & Management Great. Thank you, Barb. So at this time, we'll be conducting a live question-and-answer session. (Operator Instructions). The first question comes from Maury Raycroft of Jefferies. Maurice Thomas Raycroft - Jefferies LLC, Research Division - Equity Analyst Can you hear me? Barbara Klencke - Sierra Oncology, Inc. - Chief Development Officer Yes we can. Maurice Thomas Raycroft - Jefferies LLC, Research Division - Equity Analyst Great. Thanks for the presentations. They are really good and helpful. Maybe for Dr. Verstovsek. Wondering if you think the data showing that SIMPLIFY-1 patients who do not reach median overall survival in the arm that started momelotinib and who were naive to a JAK inhibitor and stayed on momelotinib, do you think the data are representative? And did they strengthen the case of using momelotinib from the start in the 1-line setting? Srdan Verstovsek Yes. I think that the data is very compelling. It does follow the experience with ruxolitinib, the qualitative difference in the overall response and easier management. And I think this is additional factor that we have not talked about, it's the simplicity of management of the patients. Without those modifications, transfusions or frequent monitoring of the blood count is a testament to quality of the medication that then translates, as you can see, to prolonged durability of the benefit, which is a key factor of not just achieving the benefit, but having it for a long time. And eventually, strong suggestion that then patients might be living longer with a good control of the signs and symptoms. So I hope this answers your question. Very good question. Thank you. Maurice Thomas Raycroft - Jefferies LLC, Research Division - Equity Analyst Yes. Very helpful. And then the other question I had for the panel is, from SIMPLIFY-1 and SIMPLIFY-2, we've seen a lot of great perspective and retrospective data showing the anemia benefit of momelotinib benefit on transfusion burden, benefit in patients low platelet counts and then the survival benefit. I guess, do you expect all of these analyses to make it into a label for the drug? Or which data sets do you think are the most important to get into label? 11 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 16, 2020 / 3:00PM, SRRA.OQ - Sierra Oncology Inc to Host KOL to Discuss Updated Phase 3 Myelofibrosis Data Presented at ASH - Conference Call Ruben Mesa I can say that certainly, I think, all are very important in terms of how clinicians will view the drug. And those considerations, having been formally the NCCN panel chair for MPNs in terms of what those recommendations look like, I would certainly defer to my colleagues at Sierra in terms of what they think will be appropriate in the label itself. But I do think it will certainly impact practice. Sara Parigian - LifeSci Advisors, LLC - VP of KOL Strategy & Management Thank you, Maury. The next question comes from Jay Olson at Oppenheimer. Jay Olson - Oppenheimer & Co. Inc., Research Division - Executive Director & Senior Analyst Thank you very much for these extremely informative presentations. I'm trying to understand the relative importance of anemia versus thrombocytopenia. In the randomized portion of SIMPLIFY-1, momelotinib rapidly increased red blood cells and platelets, while ruxolitinib decreased both. I'm wondering, if you had to prioritize these differences, what is more important to watch for when you treat your myelofibrosis patients with ruxolitinib? Is it anemia or is it thrombocytopenia? And recognizing that you do have supportive care treatments available to treat anemia and thrombocytopenia, considering everything available in your armamentarium, what are the largest unmet needs and potentially greatest advantages for momelotinib versus ruxolitinib in myelofibrosis patients? Srdan Verstovsek I can start here, and others may join me. I think this is a really good practical question. Anemia is present in majority of the patients, as we know, and it gets worse over time. And it is one of the major problems in management of patients with currently approved JAK inhibitors. It leads to underdosing from the very beginning, it leads to dose reductions without proper guidance on how to and when to dose adjust. While for the platelets, the platelets are low in a proportion of the patients at the beginning, perhaps 10% and it may worsen. But proportionally, there are many more patients that are anemic or experience anemia through therapy with currently available JAK inhibitors. So anemia drugs that would improve that particular aspects are being developed specifically, as you know. In momelotinib, we have medications that can address the spleen symptoms and anemia all at the same time in a simple way. Therefore, I think that the qualitative advantages of momelotinib here are those that make it very attractive. Jean-Jacques, what do you think? Jean-Jacques Kiladjian I fully agree. And we also, in clinical practice, have to deal with the drug that are available. And for us, for the moment, it's only ruxolitinib and we know that when we stop this drug, we will see a drop in hemoglobin level for all patients. And some of them who were not transfusion-dependent will become transfusion-dependent, after starting ruxolitinib. So if we can avoid that with a drug that doesn't worsen anemia or even improves anemia, it would be great for those patients with borderline hemoglobin, let's say, at the beginning. And for the platelets, it's the same the occurrence of thrombocytopenia is really a problem for patients treated with ruxolitinib because, as you saw in the trials, we have to decrease the dose and then we lose the dose intensity, we lose the benefits and the response. So also this is a very practical question. And if we can avoid to change the dose or reduce the dose because of a drop in platelets, also it's clear improvement for the patients and more chance to achieve their responses with only 1 drug. And this is also very important, as Serge mentioned, to have just 1 drug that address anemia symptoms and thrombocytopenia. It's a great advantage for patients rather than adding layers of different drugs that all will have adverse events and et cetera. 12 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 16, 2020 / 3:00PM, SRRA.OQ - Sierra Oncology Inc to Host KOL to Discuss Updated Phase 3 Myelofibrosis Data Presented at ASH - Conference Call Ruben Mesa A great discussion. Just one comment I would add and I agree with both what Serge and Jean-Jacques have mentioned, is that fundamentally, we've learned that both sets of cytopenias are really quite distinct. But I can say that anemia is a major driver of physician's choice in terms of drug utilization and concerns for their patients. So anemia is definitely something to improve. It improves quality of life. It's an important goal. Thrombocytopenia is really around safety and is something -- I mean less of concern for physicians, but up to a point. If below a certain number, it impacts practice, it decreases dose intensity and it probably decreases the overall effectiveness of the therapy. So each quite distinct, but I do think the improvement in anemia is key. I would also say that the majority of supportive options we have for either of these cytopenias at the current time are really not very effective. So although we have ESAs and (inaudible), most of these things really are not very effective, and very little that's effective for thrombocytopenia. So the ability -- the profile of this drug really is distinct. Jay Olson - Oppenheimer & Co. Inc., Research Division - Executive Director & Senior Analyst That's super helpful. If I could maybe, I had 1 follow-up question. How would you compare the efficacy of momelotinib versus a combination of JAK plus that inhibition for increasing hemoglobin levels? And maybe if you could look into the future, do you expect momelotinib to have disease-modifying features such as bone marrow fibrosis improvement? Srdan Verstovsek There are 2 excellent questions. Let me answer the first one then. The combinations are the way to go, probably. In the future, we're going to be talking about enhancing what we do in terms of controlling the spleen symptoms and anemia. Perhaps there will be also the drug that will be improving the platelets, who knows in the future. But certainly, we hope that with the combinations that can be combined in a safe way and provide durability, we will improve our management of our patients and make them live longer. We have evidence of these activities, as we just discussed in momelotinib as a single agent already. But being so safe and simple to give the momelotinib is excellent combination partners for the future. We are seeing combinations with ruxolitinib and BET inhibitor that you mentioned or Navitoclax. They do require quite an engagement of the part of the doctor and patients to juggle between the 2 drugs that may have overlapping toxicities. With momelotinib, you have much less of that, if any. So I think that there is a good potential for momelotinib-based combinations to be developed in the near future. In terms of the disease modification, the real disease modification is when you make people live longer. I mean this is such obvious to me. If you make people live longer with a good control of the signs and symptoms, which is obviously related to some biological parameter, being the bone fibrosis, being the cytokine decrease, being something else that we do not know of yet. The ultimate disease-modifying outcome is survival prolongation. So I am a little bit worried that we put too much strength or evidence on the bone marrow fibrosis modification as the evidence of disease modification without having any evidence that fibrosis modification decrease makes people live longer. Or connects to any clinical benefit, being anemia or spleen or symptoms. So I would separate the 2 and talk about life prolongation as the clear-cut evidence of the disease modification. Ruben Mesa And I would echo Serge's comment just because there's so much discussion of bone marrow fibrosis out there, but it is really an unproven endpoint. I think it's interesting, but myelofibrosis patients care about living longer or living better. For me, it's not clear at this point, that necessarily modest changes in the allele burden or modest changes in the fibrosis are necessarily correlated with either of those. I think we should study them over time. There may be methodology issues in terms of how granular that data is to even detect the difference, but living longer, living better. I think those are the most relevant endpoints. 13 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 16, 2020 / 3:00PM, SRRA.OQ - Sierra Oncology Inc to Host KOL to Discuss Updated Phase 3 Myelofibrosis Data Presented at ASH - Conference Call Jean-Jacques Kiladjian I will echo my colleagues just to say that as researchers, we are excited to find better biomarkers, et cetera, to see a nice decrease in the allele burden or the fibrosis. But when you go back to the clinic, I fully agree with Serge and Ruben, patients really don't care about that. They want to live better and longer. And I think that's the main issue. So these are really 2 different paths. One is to find possible curative treatment that is not yet available, of course. And I don't think we can achieve that with the current combinations. But the other is the clinical management of patients and how they can be happy with the help we provide them and with the better survival. Sara Parigian - LifeSci Advisors, LLC - VP of KOL Strategy & Management I'll now turn the call back to Mark for any questions that may have come in over the web. Mark M. Kowalski - Sierra Oncology, Inc. - Chief Medical Officer Yes, just there were a number of questions that have come in. And a couple of them addressed or asked about resolving bone marrow fibrosis and whether more marrow antifibrotics are needed in myelofibrosis. It was touched on previously, but let me just open that up again to Ruben, Jean-Jacques and Serge if they have any additional comments on the need for further antifibrotics and myelofibrosis. Ruben Mesa Let me just add a bit to what I had alluded to. So I think there's a couple of issues. One, we only measure fibrosis on basically 3 levels. So the granularity of the data of change is difficult to reproduce, and there's very little kind of granularity to that data. Two, we know that the fibrosis itself is a secondary phenomenon in the disease that may have a variety of implications, both related to the chrome but also aspects of bone marrow environment. So I view it as investigational. I think we do, as a field, seek a what is a good biomarker of progression-free survival. But I think fibrosis, although people call it disease-modifying, I don't think that, that has been proven. It may well end up being something that we're not measuring yet. What we have seen is proof that improvement in splenomegaly symptoms and possibly anemia probably do correlate with prolonged survival. So those, I think, get further validated every day in terms of how meaningful they actually are. Jean-Jacques Kiladjian Yes. If I may continue on the excellent answer. There is no doubt that there is an interest, and it should be done to test or evaluate antifibrotics in myelofibrosis. It is part of the disease process. It's maybe secondary and multiple factors can lead to worsening or existence of fibers in bone marrow. What will make a difference is that these antifibrotics, when evaluated in clinical studies, do provide clinically relevant endpoints, decrease in fibrosis, improvement in bone marrow function, anemia, thrombocytopenia. These are the correlations that we lack as of yet. So as a target, it's very viable, very interesting. But as the proof-of-concept that this means anything, that we don't have yet. But I am very excited about starting antifibrotics as the therapies for myelofibrosis. No question about that. Mark M. Kowalski - Sierra Oncology, Inc. - Chief Medical Officer Thank you. There are 2 questions I'm asking about momelotinib and should it be combined with a BET inhibitor like Constellation's compound. And we've touched on that before, but any additional comments about those questions? Perhaps not. That's fine. And another question asked about twice-a-day dosing and saying that the lower response in high platelet patients may be dose-intensity related. Has momelotinib been tested in a twice-a-day's dosing and would this be tolerated? 14 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 16, 2020 / 3:00PM, SRRA.OQ - Sierra Oncology Inc to Host KOL to Discuss Updated Phase 3 Myelofibrosis Data Presented at ASH - Conference Call Again, I could open it up to Barb or Ruben, Serge or Jean-Jacques, or perhaps I can comment myself. Ruben Mesa So I guess -- just a second, Mark. What was the question? Mark M. Kowalski - Sierra Oncology, Inc. - Chief Medical Officer The question is, has momelotinib been tested in a twice-a-day dosing? And was that tolerated? Srdan Verstovsek Yes. We had actually studied a Phase I/II study done, and I was the senior author on that paper. Vikas Gupta actually was the first author where we looked at the different ways of delivering momelotinib. And after all analysis of single or 2 daily doses, the suggestion from the efficacy and safety was that a daily dose is good to pursue. Now Mark would perhaps -- or Barb, have a comment from the perspective of the company, whether there are subgroups of patients that would be subject to different dosing in the future. But at the moment, I think we all are unison in what to do and how to proceed. Mark M. Kowalski - Sierra Oncology, Inc. - Chief Medical Officer No, I would agree as well with what you're saying in that it did not show a significant advantage and the 200 once-a-day and the ease of use that, that presents with its level of efficacy and tolerability is the way to go. Srdan Verstovsek Yes. Mark M. Kowalski - Sierra Oncology, Inc. - Chief Medical Officer Do we have time for a couple of more? Are there additional questions? What role might there be for the nearly approved agent, fedratinib and then also pacritinib now in pivotals? Again, Serge, Jean-Jacques, Ruben. Maybe Jean-Jacques, if you want to comment first? Jean-Jacques Kiladjian The question is about the relative pace of each of these drugs? Mark M. Kowalski - Sierra Oncology, Inc. - Chief Medical Officer Yes. What might there be for fedratinib in pacritinib? Jean-Jacques Kiladjian Yes. Yes, yes. Clearly, pacritinib targets patients with very, very low platelets, below 20,000, for example, et cetera. So it's a very particular population of patients. Fedratinib, on the other hand, as -- for me at least, a profile that is quite close to ruxolitinib. So it can be used either frontline or after roxulitinib, but will not provide, let's say, additional benefits in terms of anemia or thrombocytopenia. It may restore some splenic response. And 15 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 16, 2020 / 3:00PM, SRRA.OQ - Sierra Oncology Inc to Host KOL to Discuss Updated Phase 3 Myelofibrosis Data Presented at ASH - Conference Call for me, momelotinib is quite unique in that, as we mentioned earlier, and I would be happy to use momelotinib for those patients with low hemoglobin, low platelets to start with because I hope that we can help them with the spleen and symptom response without worsening and even with improving anemia. Mark M. Kowalski - Sierra Oncology, Inc. - Chief Medical Officer Great. Thank you. Well, I think Barb, maybe you want to ask if there are any additional calls from -- questions from the audience. If not, we could wrap up, but perhaps you can ask one last time. Barbara Klencke - Sierra Oncology, Inc. - Chief Development Officer All right. I think we're very close to the end of the hour. Let me just really thank all of our panelists today, Dr. Verstovsek, Dr. Mesa, Dr. Kiladjian. Love to hear from you, your data and the discussions that you had about your experiences with momelotinib. We really appreciate it. And thank you to all of the audience listening today. And appreciate all of the questions. We're happy to address additional questions if they come in directly to the company. So for -- on behalf of myself, Dr. Stephen Dilly, and the rest of us from Sierra, thank you all very much. Srdan Verstovsek Thank you, everybody. Jean-Jacques Kiladjian Thank you. Ruben Mesa Thank you. Mark M. Kowalski - Sierra Oncology, Inc. - Chief Medical Officer Thank you. Srdan Verstovsek Have a good day. 16 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 16, 2020 / 3:00PM, SRRA.OQ - Sierra Oncology Inc to Host KOL to Discuss Updated Phase 3 Myelofibrosis Data Presented at ASH - Conference Call DISCLAIMER Refinitiv reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes. In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized. THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES REFINITIV OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS. 2020, Refinitiv. All Rights Reserved. 13537478-2020-12-16T20:55:39 17 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 16, 2020 / 3:00PM, SRRA.OQ - Sierra Oncology Inc to Host KOL to Discuss Updated Phase 3 Myelofibrosis Data Presented at ASH - Conference Call
REFINITIV STREETEVENTS EDITED TRANSCRIPT T.N - AT&T Inc at Barclays Global Technology, Media and Telecommunications Conference (Virtual) EVENT DATE/TIME: DECEMBER 09, 2020 / 3:00PM GMT REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS Scott Mair AT&T Inc. - President of AT&T Operations CONFERENCE CALL PARTICIPANTS Kannan Venkateshwar Barclays Bank PLC, Research Division - Director & Senior Research Analyst PRESENTATION Kannan Venkateshwar - Barclays Bank PLC, Research Division - Director & Senior Research Analyst All right. Well, good morning, everyone, and welcome to today's session with AT&T. My name is Kannan Venkateshwar, and I cover the North American cable, telecom and media sectors at Barclays. Very happy this morning to have with us President, Technology and Operations at AT&T, Scott Mair, with us. Scott, welcome, and thanks for joining us this morning. Scott Mair - AT&T Inc. - President of AT&T Operations Well, thank you, and thank you for inviting me. QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS Kannan Venkateshwar - Barclays Bank PLC, Research Division - Director & Senior Research Analyst So COVID has obviously resulted in unusual data use patterns, to say the least. And it looks like initially, the network had to adjust to more peak data use away from the city centers and more two-way voice traffic, for example. Could you give us some sense of -- for the network architecture shifts that you had to make initially to cope with this, which may also have added some longer-term growth optionality for you? So maybe that's a good place to start. Scott Mair - AT&T Inc. - President of AT&T Operations Sure. And Kannan, if you don't mind, I'm going to talk about our safe harbor statement just because some of my comments today are going to be forward-looking and probably subject to risk and uncertainties and so results could differ materially. So if people want more information, they can find that on our website or in our SEC filings. And also, I'll just mention that with Auction 107 just starting yesterday, I'm not going to be covering that topic today. So with that, I'll just jump in. Yes. It's been an interesting year for sure, right? You think about what happened back in March, where in a matter of a month, we shifted from working in our offices across the country to working from our homes. And so I've been really, really proud of how well our network has performed and the work that our team has done, right? I mean, when we're in the mode we're in right now with the pandemic, connectivity is absolutely essential. And it's more now than ever, right? It's always important, but for first responders back in the spring, taking care of emergency hospitals and testing sites, and we've got millions and millions and millions of kids working from home -- or not working, but going to school from home and all of us are working from home. So the networks actually held up well. And if you think about it, I think it's really from our standpoint, a function of all the investments we've been putting in over the last number of years here. The last 4 or 5 years, we've been building a ton of capacity. And that capacity has really served us really well right now. And so a function, as you think about it, that traffic shifted from urban areas to suburban and actually rural. We saw rural jump up pretty significantly. And so the ability to handle that with the capacity we had is working well. Backbone traffic, we saw it rise 20% kind of the Internet highway, if you will. And it's stayed there, over 400 petabytes a day in our network. And so web conferencing, like we're doing right now, that has jumped up, but 2 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 09, 2020 / 3:00PM, T.N - AT&T Inc at Barclays Global Technology, Media and Telecommunications Conference (Virtual) that's stabilized. The one that caught me off guard a little bit is the voice traffic actually jumped up really significantly as people were home, they're picking up the phones and they're calling. And so we were able to care for that. We had to put in some extra voice capacity very quickly in the first couple of weeks. But after that, it's been really good. And one of the things that I was probably most concerned about is we had some really large commitments for our build. And we hit our 5G build midyear as we had planned. We achieved the FirstNet build as we had committed as part of our FirstNet contract in 80% of the square miles. And so that's been a very nice surprise for us. We thought we might have some more challenges on supply chain and such. And that turned out not to be the case. And so to build, to your point, in terms of long-term as we continue to build the capacity that we'll keep up with and evolving to 5G, it's going to serve us well. And we'll stay ahead of the curve because it's usually the surge that catches you. But once you're there, then it kind of has a tendency to flatten out, which is exactly what we have seen. Kannan Venkateshwar - Barclays Bank PLC, Research Division - Director & Senior Research Analyst Got it. And is there any new areas or footprints, maybe suburban or rural that you initially had to expand to in order to cope with the initial surge and demand and something that potentially becomes a permanent benefit for you guys going forward? Scott Mair - AT&T Inc. - President of AT&T Operations So because of the work that we've been doing for the FirstNet build and 5G, we've been touching all of those areas, including rural, and modernizing and putting our spectrum to work, so the vast amount of spectrum that we put in service actually is the capacity that we've been consuming here. And so there's not any additional work we need to do because we were ahead of the curve, driven by -- we're going to touch the tower anyway, so let's put our spectrum up. And that's given us the capacity that I've just referenced. So the build will continue. And we always continue to invest in the network very, very heavily. Between that and fiber, we'll continue that focus going forward. So nothing I think in terms of new areas, it's just making sure that we had the capacity there. And if we didn't have the capacity there, like I mentioned in the voice back end of the network, we care for that very quickly with the way that we can add capacity nowadays. Kannan Venkateshwar - Barclays Bank PLC, Research Division - Director & Senior Research Analyst I guess one of the hot areas more recently or discussion points amongst investors is Open RAN. And there are a lot of deployments in Japan and Europe and Latin America. And the technology does seem to be easier to deploy and scale if you're building a green fleet network. And some of these operators are doing it globally, including the U.S. But could you help us understand if this can be an OpEx or a CapEx saving opportunity for an incumbent like yourselves? And what are the main constraints are to move into this direction? Scott Mair - AT&T Inc. - President of AT&T Operations Yes. So the answer is, yes, we believe that O-RAN is going to be a good benefit for us. And so -- and we actually plan to implement Open RAN in our network. I mean we think it's really a good technology that will become available. But it's just not going to happen overnight, Kannan. It's going to take some time as mature -- for maturity. And just a little bit of background on O-RAN. That organization, the O-RAN ALLIANCE, started back in the early -- I guess, early 2018 with only 5 operators and AT&T was one of those. That organization now has over 230 different organizations, companies, equipment manufacturers, universities, consulting companies as part of it. And it's starting to take on a lot of speed and a lot of importance. And so if you think about what O-RAN does and why it's important, if you -- 2G, 3G, 4G, those were linear improvements in terms of the wireless network for speed and capacity and some incremental functionality. But with 5G, the new capabilities that come with 5G for massive connectivity on IoT, also energy efficiency on IoT, the key one is slicing capability, network slicing. How do you use the capabilities of the ability to manipulate resources within the 5G environment to architect new solutions? And so that's what's really different. And O-RAN is going to take the RAN network, 3 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 09, 2020 / 3:00PM, T.N - AT&T Inc at Barclays Global Technology, Media and Telecommunications Conference (Virtual) if you will, the radio access network, 3GPP standards-based and break it apart into components. And so it's not going to be monolithic like today's networks. It will be component parts that then interwork with each other through standardized interfaces. And when you do that, you unlock the capability that's in those components and inviting in innovation. Today, a lot of those are proprietary stacks, if you will, proprietary systems. And so by opening it up and then getting the individual components, it allows innovators to come in and do what they do best, which is find solutions and create solutions to problem sets that we have. So that's really what O-RAN is. And as a result of that, we're going to do things like have the opportunity to instead of buy a full component set of capability from any one vendor, we'll be able to buy components and mix and match components within that and use the innovators instead of the proprietary -- just the proprietary stack separately. So that's a CapEx benefit. OpEx benefits, things like the way we manage our network. Today, there's an element management system, a system that helps us operate the network. But you have one per vendor. And with O-RAN being able to open that up, we can then architect automation and operations capability on top of a single system instead of buying a bunch of individual ones. So there will be OpEx benefit to that as well in terms of how we operate the networks going forward. So yes, we think O-RAN is going to be really good. Kannan Venkateshwar - Barclays Bank PLC, Research Division - Director & Senior Research Analyst Got it. That's interesting. And so when you think about these components, I mean, now that you're building the network slightly differently and there are separate components that you have to think about instead of a monolith in terms of architecture, to what extent are you actually starting with the kind of applications that you essentially have want to deploy in the future. Because historically, when you deploy your networks, all the applications got the same quality of service versus a 5G world, where, like you said, network slicing and so on, some of these capabilities create different paths for building a network. So when you start building this network, to what extent are you thinking of applications first versus the way you used to design networks in the past? Scott Mair - AT&T Inc. - President of AT&T Operations Yes. So the applications are going to come. And so I'll share a little bit about how we're thinking about it. But the 3GPP standards for 5G really allows this to happen, as I mentioned. So it allows the flexibility in use cases. And when I say use cases, it's how do you use the resources of the network to bring about new capabilities. And so while the 5G standard -- 5G is standards-based, the applications are going to come now. And that's partly why O-RAN is important because the applications and the ability to drive uniqueness or differentiation is going to come as a result of the capability I just talked about on O-RAN. But things like low latency or real-time services were not possible in 3G and 4G. But with the way that 5G is architected, we'll be able to get at some real-time capabilities. And let me just give you an example. So we've talked a lot about autonomous car driving and things of that nature. But in order to do that, the need within a vehicle is very different, right? I mean if you think about the sensors and the real-time nature of sensors in a vehicle that is autonomous driving, that needs to be very real time. And we want it to be real time, right? It needs to be there. But at the same time, in that same service, you have a host of other things that could be delivered, such as video into the car, also telematics, just on how the car is performing. And each of those individual capabilities have different needs from the network. And so we'll be able to prioritize capabilities and architect capabilities within that service itself for autonomous car. And so that's -- those applications are coming. And when you think about where we're focused at manufacturing use cases, health care use cases are pretty key. We're looking at how do you actually energize gaming with real-time capability. Those are all use cases that are early on. But I think we're just at the early dawn of what is going to be enabled with 5G. 4 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 09, 2020 / 3:00PM, T.N - AT&T Inc at Barclays Global Technology, Media and Telecommunications Conference (Virtual) Kannan Venkateshwar - Barclays Bank PLC, Research Division - Director & Senior Research Analyst Got it. So it sounds like in a lot of these cases, as you design the network and you're thinking through applications, you're also working with application vendors and providers in the process. And to what extent does the 5G network architecture need to open up to some of these third-party infrastructure providers, say, Google Cloud, for example, or AWS, you do have some of these tie-ups, in order to truly realize the capabilities like edge compute? To what extent do you depend on some of these external vendors? Scott Mair - AT&T Inc. - President of AT&T Operations Yes. So I think the need to open up for 5G, I think, is not specifically tied to 5G itself. I think the need to open up is really a function of the capabilities that are inherent within it and the evolving architecture of the 5G network. One of the capabilities that are being created are, as I mentioned, low-latency services. And for that, you need edge cloud, which means you need to be able to move the compute closer into where the customer is. You can do other things and get efficiencies out of that edge cloud capability by actually potentially moving workloads off of smart devices, right? We carry a lot of power in that device that we all carry in our pockets. But some of that capability you could move into the network to potentially even get better efficiencies in devices in terms of size, weight, battery drain. And so to the degree that we need edge cloud capability, that can be done in a number of different ways. And we feel really good at AT&T about how well we're positioned, right? You need real estate. You need technical spaces to put edge compute capability. And we literally have thousands and thousands of those locations across the country. And so where you have that edge capability, you can implement it in any type of cloud. You really can, it can be public and it can be private. So yes, some of the hyperscalers will be playing in that. And we welcome anybody that can help bring efficiency to compute and storage and help us serve our customers. So we have really, from the way we look at it, 2 different types of cloud capabilities. One is what we call multi-access edge compute. And that really is really a function of what a business needs to support their individual capabilities. So think about it as a private LTE network on site. Many customers want to use wireless technology within the domains in which they work, manufacturing plants or administrative offices and such and they have different needs. But they don't necessarily want that traffic to leave their network, leave their firewalls. And so with that, we can put in a MEC unit and service what that customer needs and allow them to care for their own wireless traffic within their domain and then also use the Internet for the other traffic that they need, leave it in there. So that's what MEC is for us. The other one is what I call NEC, network edge cloud. So that's the traditional things that I just mentioned. Nearby, I have a node that offers low-latency services and capabilities for normal network functions, maybe it's that offload of smartphone capability that I talked about and other application services. So at the end of the day, opening up the network, and yes, cloud players will play and they can play in the space of application development or actually providing compute and storage for people that are building applications. Kannan Venkateshwar - Barclays Bank PLC, Research Division - Director & Senior Research Analyst Got it. And I guess a broader question around 5G is, given the kind of applications you're working around, given the third-party vendors that you're working with, in the past, it has been very clear when you said a particular generation of technology was deployed in a particular city, what it meant. I mean you deployed a coverage layer on a macro cell and you were, I guess, more or less done. But today, given the kind of applications you're working with and the density of small cells that you need, especially for things like millimeter wave, at what point is 5G fully covered in a given city? How do you define what 5G coverage truly means today? Scott Mair - AT&T Inc. - President of AT&T Operations Yes. So 5G for us is basically it's a coverage layer. So really, our ability to deliver our 5G nationwide was done on our macro network. So think about traditional cell sites, and so that sub-6-gigahertz spectrum that we've talked about is the way that we got that. So that's the way you're going to get coverage. And the capacity will come from the other spectrum bands. 5 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 09, 2020 / 3:00PM, T.N - AT&T Inc at Barclays Global Technology, Media and Telecommunications Conference (Virtual) When you think about other unique capabilities, millimeter wave technology, right, the millimeter wave provides unique characteristics in terms of bandwidth and speed. And that is going to play a part. But the millimeter wave and the propagation properties of that, take your pick anywhere, 200, 300, 350 yards, is really not going to fulfill a coverage layer need for 5G. So 5G in terms of coverage and when you get a 5G on your phone is really going to come from the more traditional side of the wireless networks. Kannan Venkateshwar - Barclays Bank PLC, Research Division - Director & Senior Research Analyst Got it. And one of the other things that's slightly different, I guess, about 5G, although you did have some components of this in 4G as well, is the way spectrum is used, right? And CBRS has some constraints, which make it probably less interesting for you than maybe C-band. But the spec sharing model itself seems to be becoming something that the FCC and the government is more keen on to deploy. And it also seems to be something that is a model others around the world are keen on. And you use, of course, Band 14 and FirstNet for commercial use based on prioritization framework. So as you look at the road map for 5G, there are technology integration paths laid out, such as WiFi with IEEE standards with 3GPP, for example. Do you think spectrum exclusivity by carrier or even use case could become less important as a network differentiator over time? Scott Mair - AT&T Inc. - President of AT&T Operations Yes. I think it's really good question. And with respect to shared spectrum from my point of view and AT&T's point of view, it absolutely has a place in wireless access, it does. And we particularly think that when it's paired with what I call licensed spectrum or managed spectrum, right, it provides good capability. In fact, today, we use that technology in the band -- what's called license-assisted access, the 5-gigahertz band. We pair up LAA with our license spectrum. And it gives us a big boost in capacity in areas. But yet, you can rely on that licensed spectrum to maintain a very stable connection on the control side. And so that -- it actually really works well. And the shared work will work -- or shared spectrum will work in certain use cases. You mentioned that FirstNet. So it comes -- sharing comes in many different forms. You think about what we do with FirstNet, it's a shared asset between the FirstNet traffic and our commercial customers. And so with that sharing though, it's all within the same network framework. And so that gives us the ability to manage that traffic, both for performance and also the movement of traffic across the RAN infrastructure. So that's a different type of sharing versus unlicensed spectrum, like LAA or CBRS GAA spectrum. And so there's uses for all of it. And any time the FCC brings spectrum to the table for consideration by the industry, we absolutely take a look at it. And as I mentioned, we're actually using it today. Kannan Venkateshwar - Barclays Bank PLC, Research Division - Director & Senior Research Analyst I guess another band which has generated obviously a lot of interest in the 5G context is millimeter wave. And deploying millimeter wave, I guess the most obvious conclusion people come to is the densification of the network itself. But it also requires a wholesale shift in how you build networks, right, from the switches that you use to the volume permits that you need to ask for and so on. And a lot of this, of course, we, on our side, don't really see. But the organizational focus from a network building perspective needs to change. So could you help us understand how the organization has changed to manage this deployment or will manage this deployment going forward? And how is this different from past deployments? Scott Mair - AT&T Inc. - President of AT&T Operations Sure. So just on millimeter wave, just to talk a little bit about how we're using it, so we use millimeter wave and we call it 5G+. But again, it's just millimeter wave solution sets. And for the most part, it's enterprise use cases and maybe what I would call venue-specific use cases that we're using it for at this point. So we have it deployed in 36 cities and we continue to build out nodes to those cities to densify the network. And it's the things 6 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 09, 2020 / 3:00PM, T.N - AT&T Inc at Barclays Global Technology, Media and Telecommunications Conference (Virtual) that we've been talking about. Entertainment districts and stadiums, health care and manufacturing plants are kind of the business side, if you will, the enterprise side, with a lot of promise. And in those areas, I mean, the economics work really well, dense traffic specific use cases. For the deployment, it's a good question as well on that. Deployment, it is a little different. In some ways, it's different, in some ways, it's the same. And I'll explain a little bit about what the differences are. When you think about millimeter wave, and it's basically a small cell, if you will, it gets hubbed back to a central location called a hub. And so in a cell site environment, you basically had a 1:1 relationship. I had 1 cell site, 1 set of equipment and 1 fiber. And it was all self-contained. In the millimeter wave or even LTE C-RAN capability, it's a hub and node structure. And so now I have a one-to-many relationship. I have 1 centralized processing point but a lot of different radios out across the city. And so that means you've got systems automation that needs to be changed. You have certainly the permitting volumes, right, because the number of nodes is a lot higher. And so that has been a constraint actually within the industry. But we're getting -- I'd say the industry is getting better and better at that. And certainly, the more of the municipalities that we have to deal with because it's unanticipated volume for them. But then you also have a lot of coordination that happens, a lot higher level of coordination. You've got power you need to coordinate through that particular pole or site. You have fiber that needs to be there. You have different hardware configurations to be deployed. And so all of those things play into the deployment of millimeter wave nodes that are different than, for instance, just deploying a cell site per se. But again, we're really good at processes and automation. We've got a lot of that all cared for at this point. And volumes are coming along very nicely from my point of view. We also have a spectrum and that always counts, right? We've got really good millimeter wave spectrum through the last couple of auctions. Kannan Venkateshwar - Barclays Bank PLC, Research Division - Director & Senior Research Analyst So we just have a couple of minutes. But maybe we could touch on some of the cable companies and the partnerships that they seem to be seeking. And they seem to be more willing to partner with wireless companies on things such as strand mounted small cells. And cable companies also have power deep in their networks and backhaul infrastructure. So as you build out your networks, to what extent do you think cable companies can be useful partners from your perspective in accelerating the build? And what sways you in one direction or the other while making this decision? Scott Mair - AT&T Inc. - President of AT&T Operations Yes. I mean for shared infrastructure, we absolutely believe in shared infrastructure. And there's different business models available in the industry right now. And they're continuing to evolve. So it's an interesting space right now. For me, it's all about what's the business model. If the business model is right, shared infrastructure is absolutely the right play, especially if we're all going to be in the same spot, for instance. And so there's -- and we do some of that today, even in the way we architect the network today. So when we think about how we go about our building of fiber, for instance, right, that's -- within our footprint, we have a very deep fiber footprint in 21 states. And we use that footprint with the way that we plan fiber for providing infrastructure for the wireless consumers as well as business. But there's also other people that come to us to provide fiber for their services. Maybe they need fiber to a cell site. So there's a big business relationship across the industry on shared infrastructure in different ways. So out of footprint -- so in footprint, we're good. Out of footprint, we actually own a lot of fiber outside of our footprint from [one spot a day], the different merger and acquisitions that AT&T has done. So we use that out of footprint. And we do a build versus buy analysis, right? If we have fiber nearby and we can easily extend it and it makes good economic sense, we'll do that. Otherwise, we'll lease fiber, right? And we'll turn around and lease it. Out of footprint, where we don't have fiber assets, and this is not new, we lease fiber. And we lease it from literally hundreds of both large and small companies across this nation. And so that ecosystem is very strong, right? There's people that buy from us and we buy from them. And so there's an ecosystem there that allows for business models to be put together about shared infrastructure. And we continue to look for opportunities to do that, right? Cable companies and others have fiber assets and power at different places. And so I think that's going to continue to evolve within the industry. 7 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 09, 2020 / 3:00PM, T.N - AT&T Inc at Barclays Global Technology, Media and Telecommunications Conference (Virtual) Kannan Venkateshwar - Barclays Bank PLC, Research Division - Director & Senior Research Analyst Got it. I think we are almost out of time. But I have to ask you one question because as a technologist, my guess is your perspective is different on 5G and what it really means in terms of exciting use cases versus what all of us think about. So from your seat, what do you think are the most exciting applications? And what are the most realistic applications versus all the hype that we hear about? Scott Mair - AT&T Inc. - President of AT&T Operations Yes. So I'm going to go back to something I mentioned earlier. I think the combination of edge nodes and 5G capability and opening up the capability so allow innovation to happen is pretty key. And some of the things that will come out of this, the real-time applications that I mentioned, right, that's going to allow us to do things that previously were only relegated to the home or business. But that's going to open up capabilities to perform those functions, real-time gaming, real-time video, real-time capabilities that allow us to perform our work or lives in a much different way. So real-time capabilities, I think, are pretty key. Secondly, entertainment becoming more immersive and portable, right? We can do some of those things at home. But when you get to near real-time, AR and VR become very possible. So we're on the early stages of that. But I think that's going to provide great capabilities. And just back to the flexibility in the architecture of 5G is something we have not had. And I think that is going to be the key to unlocking things, just the way we saw happen in LTE earlier this decade. LTE came and all sorts of new business models and applications popped up because new resources were available, faster speeds. Same thing is now going to happen in 5G. And so we're on the early stages of that curve. But it's going to be an exciting time. And I'm very, very confident that 5G is going to be that next wave of innovation that I just referenced. Kannan Venkateshwar - Barclays Bank PLC, Research Division - Director & Senior Research Analyst Got it. That's all we have time for today, Scott. Thanks so much for joining us. This was very insightful. I hope to speak to you soon. Scott Mair - AT&T Inc. - President of AT&T Operations All right. Thank you very much, appreciate you asking me to be here. Kannan Venkateshwar - Barclays Bank PLC, Research Division - Director & Senior Research Analyst Sure. thanks. DISCLAIMER Refinitiv reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes. In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized. THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES REFINITIV OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS. 2020, Refinitiv. All Rights Reserved. 13537479-2020-12-10T05:56:58.703 8 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 09, 2020 / 3:00PM, T.N - AT&T Inc at Barclays Global Technology, Media and Telecommunications Conference (Virtual)
REFINITIV STREETEVENTS EDITED TRANSCRIPT NYT.N - New York Times Co at UBS Global TMT Conference (Virtual) EVENT DATE/TIME: DECEMBER 09, 2020 / 5:05PM GMT REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS Meredith A. Kopit Levien The New York Times Company - President, CEO & Director CONFERENCE CALL PARTICIPANTS Alexander Iosilevich PRESENTATION Alexander Iosilevich Welcome to the New York Times session at the 2020 UBS TMT Conference. I'm Alex Iosilevich. I will be moderating the session with Meredith Kopit Levien, President and CEO of The New York Times. The session is in the fireside chat format. I will run with some prepared topics, and then we'll be glad to take questions from the audience. So please feel free to submit them to the system. QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS Alexander Iosilevich With that, I'd like to introduce Meredith. And maybe start with her experience on the CEO job since the summer. Obviously, you've been with the company for many years, but I would love to get your perspective and your observations from the CEO seat that you may not have appreciated before. Meredith A. Kopit Levien - The New York Times Company - President, CEO & Director Yes. Thank you, Alex, for the question and thanks to you and UBS for having me. I keep telling people that one of the best parts -- there are so many good things about this job, but one of the best things is coming into the pilot seat from the copilot chair. And I can tell you that for the most part, the plane is flying in the same direction. So it's been a great and exciting first few months officially in the role. But much of what we are doing represents a continuation of the strategy we've now had for some time, and that is to be the definitive leader in quality, independent journalism for the English-speaking world and, particularly, to be the definitive leader in running that as a digital subscription business. And we're even more optimistic today than we were at any point that I've been here in the size and the strength of the addressable market for quality, independent journalism. We think there's at least 100 million people in the English-speaking world who will pay for journalism through subscription. We're more confident in that than we've been for some good reasons and some not so good reasons. I think willingness to pay is generally going up in the world for journalism. I think, unfortunately, ad-supported journalism continues to be under pressure and I think at all points in the direction of The Times succeeding in subscriptions. And I'll say, we also increasingly like our position in the market at 7 million and change subscriptions. We've got a small percentage of the market today. It's not hard to imagine us having 2, 3, 4, 5x that percentage. And oh, by the way, there's plenty of room for other journalism outlets to succeed there as well. So we like what we see. And if anything, we just feel even more ambitious about the moment and the opportunity in front of us. 2 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 09, 2020 / 5:05PM, NYT.N - New York Times Co at UBS Global TMT Conference (Virtual) Alexander Iosilevich Meredith, is there anything you would do differently from Mark's direction? Any changes to the vision for the next few years? Meredith A. Kopit Levien - The New York Times Company - President, CEO & Director I think maybe the short answer is no. The more nuanced answer is maybe some different areas of emphasis. But the strategy, as I've just described, is a continuous one. I would say in terms of areas of emphasis, we are incredibly focused at the moment on making sure we can continue to get people to form a habit with our journalism. And I think we'll do a lot of that by increasing the number of news needs that we meet. So you'll see us continue to emphasize that. I think you'll see us in the coming years express even more ambition around what we've traditionally called our stand-alone products. We now have close to 1.5 million subscriptions to cooking and to games. And I think we're just getting started in both of those spaces and believe those products can help us play a bigger role in people's lives and particularly play a role in people's lives that The New York Times may not already be in. And we don't think those are the only spaces where we have that opportunity. And then I'll say 2 other things that I'm incredibly focused on as CEO. We have a real opportunity to improve our underlying tech platform. We've I think been really successful so far building new features that do drive people to engage with our journalism quite differently. But I think we have a real opportunity to improve how we do that at scale, and that's in our centralized tech work. And you'll hear me talk about that a lot, and I think you'll see us continue to invest in that. And then I'll just say something I've said inside the company quite a lot over the last few months. I think we've always been in an extraordinary mission that has real appeal to people, particularly our employees, but the world at large. We're increasingly a very strong business. I think we also have an opportunity to become a better and better company, which means a place where talent in all of our major disciplines, not just journalism, all of the big disciplines that advance The New York Times can come and do our best -- their best work. And I think we've got a lot of room to grow there. Alexander Iosilevich Terrific. Maybe taking a little bit of a step back and speaking about the broader media entertainment ecosystem. Last year, we had a nice chat with Mark about the competition for consumer time and wallets with streaming video, games and lots of other products. And it seems like that's intensified with the pandemic with more people going to digital consumption of media. Just talk a little bit about how you guys have been investing in the business to keep your relevance and keep your spot in the mind of consumers. Meredith A. Kopit Levien - The New York Times Company - President, CEO & Director Yes. That's a great question. Let me answer that in a few ways. The first thing to say is that I think we're like in the foothills of a new era of journalism and even news just playing a bigger and a more profound role in people's lives. And the way I describe that is when you can sort of hold all of news in the palm of your hand updating in real time, it can really be and do different things in your lives. And that plays out at The Times in a couple of different ways. If you look at what The Times did right around the election, on the day of the election, we had something like 75 million people using The New York Times. And on the next day, we had 120 million people using The New York Times. And they were there not just for access to more stories. They were there because there was a complete and really varied and really different experience that just gave you a full picture of everything important unfolding around the election, from the vote count by state to the maps of when polls were closing and where things were happening to real-time live input from reporters on the ground all over the country. 3 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 09, 2020 / 5:05PM, NYT.N - New York Times Co at UBS Global TMT Conference (Virtual) And I think we're just at the beginning of what this really differentiated multimedia experience can do to hold people's attention. That -- those are giant audiences for a digital property, that's a television-sized audience for a big event. And we're increasingly confident that the opportunity size has changed because of all of the different tools we have to bring to bear now in media. And I'll give another example. It showed up in our election coverage, but it's been a through line all year, which is The Times has traditionally been a place in digital where you come for stories. And you didn't necessarily come to us first for a live or a developing story as something was happening. You might have gone to Twitter or turned on CNN or another news outlet in TV. But during the pandemic, we became much more adept at telling people what was happening on these like long-arc developing stories and in real time, which is something that sits above or adjacent to stories. It's really a different kind of muscle for our newsroom. And we've now, this year, been live on dozens of topics, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, with a huge arsenal of journalistic talent. And I think that really just pushes us into a different space in people's lives. And the last thing I'll say is I think the report is getting increasingly visual and interactive. And I think you're going to see over time that become even more the case and more varied in the formats that we presented. Alexander Iosilevich Terrific. Let's stick with the news cycle topic for a minute. Obviously, 2020 has been nothing short of extraordinary. Can you talk a little bit about your expectations for '21? And how are you positioning to continue the momentum, I guess? Meredith A. Kopit Levien - The New York Times Company - President, CEO & Director Yes. Well, I'll say I don't think the news cycle will certainly change. It always does. The story lines will change, the character of the stories will change. But it's hard to imagine the level of uncertainty in the world receding anytime soon. And I would say many of the underlying stories that have driven the political news cycle, in particular, and the sense of just extreme polarization in the country and in the world, those underlying stories have not gone away and, in fact, I think will continue to shape how we live and much of society. The story of tech -- technology changing so much of how the world works, the story of the rise of China, the story of the effects of climate change or rising inequality, I don't think there will be less complexity on those topics and others like them anytime soon. And so I think The Times will continue to be a place that people turn to in moments of real uncertainty. Let me say another thing, though, just about the political story, in particular. We do have a very strong insight that colors a lot of our work at The Times, which is that the behavior that most correlates with someone converting to become a subscriber, taking the action of subscribing is experiencing our coverage across a broad range of topics. And actually, the more topics over one that you engage with up to a certain point, the more likely you are to then pay for a subscription, the more likely you are to form a habit and to return. And so I think that suggests that breadth has always been the sort of most important asset of The New York Times, the fact that we are very strong across a range of topics. And that makes me quite confident that we're far bigger and sort of more people to have value and meaning in people's lives than any single story. I'll also say that the vast majority of people, more than 80% of people who do read politics on The New York Times also engage in multiple other topics. And there's even a surprising number of people. It's not the majority, but a surprising number of people who have not come to us for politics at all. 4 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 09, 2020 / 5:05PM, NYT.N - New York Times Co at UBS Global TMT Conference (Virtual) Alexander Iosilevich So I guess in light of this, do you expect to continue investing in the newsroom and the staff? Or are you at steady state at this point? Meredith A. Kopit Levien - The New York Times Company - President, CEO & Director I think the most important aspect of The Times' ability to transform itself from an adverse business to a subscription-first business and for our ability to go from being a print-dominant business to a fully digitally dominant business today has been the continued investment in the quality and the breadth of the product, which is, first, it's not only, but it is, first, the continued investment in our journalism. So I do think you should expect us to continue to invest in the journalism and for us to do that in a fairly steady way as opposed to a discontinuous way. What's interesting I think is the character of that investment. If you look back over the last few years at where we've grown the newsroom most increasingly, it's in some of the things I touched on before. So it's in our ability to do live journalism. It's in our ability to do audio journalism. We have a sizable audio newsroom now that didn't exist 5 years ago. It's in visual journalism and interactive journalism. One of the things we're proudest of this year in terms of what the newsroom has been able to do is very, very quickly in the early days and weeks of COVID, of the pandemic, our newsrooms saw that there was no central way for people to understand the spread of the virus by locale. And so we began to assemble a tool set to help people understand that. And now we have one of the most comprehensive views of how COVID is spreading, and we've built a number of things on top of that, that give people real personal relevance to understand how should I navigate my own life as this disease makes its terrible spread across the country and the world. And I say that because that has required data science and visual work and interactive work, and that's an area where we'll continue to invest in the news. So you can almost think of the character of investments. Surely, we'll add people to bureaus, we'll add people to beats. But the real investment, the material investment comes as we push into meeting more news needs and into new formats. And I'll say, I think we've arguably underinvested in the opportunity around stand-alone products, around games and cooking and other spaces in people's lives we might enter into. And you can expect us to continue to invest in those spaces as well. Alexander Iosilevich Let's spend a minute on subscriptions, and that's obviously a key topic for the financial community. And I have a few questions here from the audience already on this topic. But let's start maybe with 2020. Obviously, it's been a terrific year for you guys in terms of a very outsized cohort of new subscribers. Congratulations on that. I'd love to hear a little bit of your perspective on whether or not this subscriber cohort is different from the prior ones. Do you see different engagement, different churn metrics? And are you doing anything different with respect to retention of this cohort? Meredith A. Kopit Levien - The New York Times Company - President, CEO & Director Yes. Let me answer that first by saying the most important thing we can do with every cohort. However they come, whatever movement in the world might have driven them to come, the most important thing we can do once we get them to subscribe is to engage them deeply in that subscription. We have a number of tools to do that. And I would say kind of month-over-month, quarter-over-quarter, we get steadily better at doing that, at getting them to form a habit with the journalism. And we've got lots of tools in the toolkit to do that with: we have news alerts and we have topics of interest, and we have e-mails, we have messaging on the site. And bit by bit, we're getting better at each of those tools, at deploying those tools in a way that really gets people to form a habit with the journalism and ultimately stay. 5 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 09, 2020 / 5:05PM, NYT.N - New York Times Co at UBS Global TMT Conference (Virtual) And we're particularly focused. There's real retentive behavior around getting people to come more days. So you'll see us focus, in particular, on products and experiences that can repeat. One of the big success stories we've had this year is what we used to call the Morning Briefing, we now call the Morning. It's our daily newsletter that has something like 5 million opens every day. Not subscribers. It has many more subscribers in part because we opt people in for that when they register, but something like 5 million people open that and read it every day, which is really an extraordinary number. So there are a lot of levers to engage people. I'd also say we get bit by bit better and better at the commercial levers like the straightforwardly commercial levers of holding on to subscribers. So finding the right ways to step them up in price or to address them in a priority moment, whether it's onboarding or when we see they've -- if their credit card has lapsed or changed or if we -- they've churned out for some voluntary reason, we get better and better at that. And then I'll just -- I'll touch on sort of your -- I think your broader point, should we be particularly worried about a cohort that comes in for one news story and then the news cycle changes. If I look back to the cohorts that came in right around the election of 2016, we had a very strong growth in the fourth quarter of 2016. So a very big cohort there and then a very big cohort the next quarter. Those were some of our best engaged and best retaining subscribers for the long haul. So we actually think there's something in affinity there that happens when you come in around a moment of high need. It remains to be seen. Does that always apply forward? But looking backward, we've certainly seen that. And that has been the case with COVID. We had a real surge in subscription in the early COVID period. If you remember, in the second quarter, we had a historic number of subscriptions. And we really -- they are as engaged and retained as any prior cohort. So we feel optimistic about that. Alexander Iosilevich Terrific. Can you talk a little bit about your view on growth in the post-Trump world? And perhaps even a longer-term outlook in terms of subscriber potential for your products? Meredith A. Kopit Levien - The New York Times Company - President, CEO & Director Yes. I mean I think I've addressed some of that already by saying as we push into new formats, as we've done with live journalism, which we're just at the beginning of, I think we have a real chance to win habits from people who didn't previously read news or audio is a great example of that. We have something like 4 million people listen to The Daily every day. It didn't exist 4 years ago. So as we push into new formats, I think that will help us. I also think we will increasingly meet more needs in people's lives beyond news, so journalism-adjacent products. We've got real optimism, as I've said before, in games and cooking. And we don't rule out other spaces that we can really play a role in. So I'm incredibly optimistic about that. My camera looks a little fuzzy. Alex, I don't know if that's you or me, but I assume I would hear from one of you if you couldn't hear me for... Alexander Iosilevich Yes. We can see you here. You're just fine. Meredith A. Kopit Levien - The New York Times Company - President, CEO & Director Great. Great. 6 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 09, 2020 / 5:05PM, NYT.N - New York Times Co at UBS Global TMT Conference (Virtual) Alexander Iosilevich Meredith, can you speak a little bit about the international subscriber cohorts? Maybe compare and contrast a little bit, if you can, with the U.S.? And talk about the potential of international for your business as well? Meredith A. Kopit Levien - The New York Times Company - President, CEO & Director Yes. I think the potential is quite big internationally. When I talk about an addressable market of 100 million people who we think will pay for English language, quality journalism, we assume at least half of that market is outside the United States. The pursuit there is a bit different. In the United States, we are looking to be the primary news source. Outside the United States, we assume we'll be a second read. We do not assume we'll be the -- to answer to your whole news need. And we really sharpened the view of that strategy over the last 18 months, 2 years. And I think it's helped propel our growth. That led us to believe that we could begin to scale internationally through differential pricing. So looking at markets that were beyond where we've been traditionally strong outside the United States. So we're traditionally strong in the big English-speaking markets, Canada, U.K., Australia. What we've now done is begun to introduce lower introductory prices in places like India and Latin America and other parts of Eastern and Western Europe. And that's really helping us convert I think more people than we might have otherwise. And then I would just say, we're very optimistic over a long time horizon that international will be a big part of our growth, but it presupposes part of the proposition is that we are the leading news provider domestically. So I would say those 2 things should travel together, not at odds with one another. And we tend to be some period of time behind our domestic efforts on optimizations we make to the pay model. So for example, now, we've got a pretty sophisticated dynamic metering system and dynamic registration system, how many articles should someone see before we ask them to pay, we usually get really good at doing that domestically before we roll it out internationally. It's a bit more complex internationally, but you see us catching up and doing that internationally as well. But I'm very optimistic. And I would say, over a very long time horizon, I see no reason why we can't push beyond the English-speaking world as translation capabilities become more able to be enabled by technology at scale. Alexander Iosilevich Switching to the topic of advertising, so obviously, the announcement this morning. So it looks like you're experiencing some of the sequential improvement in that business. Just talk a little bit about the last couple of months, what you're seeing in the ad market and your outlook for the rest of the year and beyond. Meredith A. Kopit Levien - The New York Times Company - President, CEO & Director Yes. So we did announce this morning that we expected to see sequential improvement. So just to remind you, our ad business was down I think in the 40s in the second quarter and around 30% in the third quarter. And we think that's going to come down pretty significantly to about 20% in this quarter. And that's because demand is improving, and my sense is that is not -- that's demand at large, not specific to The Times. The Times does, though, have a very wide mix of advertisers. So we play in many, many categories. And what we're seeing is particularly the largest spending brands, the big brands, many of the tech brands, some of the big telecom and entertainment brands are beginning to come back in a much bigger way and, in some cases, with really specific messages about this unique moment we're living in. We've also tended to see with a new administration coming into Washington, we tend to see an uptick in advertising to influencers. And we're beginning to see that. And then I would say -- so that's my demand side. 7 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 09, 2020 / 5:05PM, NYT.N - New York Times Co at UBS Global TMT Conference (Virtual) Answer on the supply side, I think we've got some pretty resilient products, that we're just at the beginning of getting to realize the value of audio. Demand for audio is very strong, and we have very strong audio supply. The Daily is a successful, high-CPM, high-inventory ad product that keeps growing because the audience keeps growing. The Daily is also an envelope or a distribution means to launch other podcasts, and we've got optimism around advertising for that. We've obviously just acquired Serial Productions. So we think as we look ahead, audio will continue to be strong. And then we've talked publicly for probably 1 year, 1.5 years now about really shifting our ad business from being creatively led to being -- it's almost like a little bit back to the future to being really about the differential value of the media, of our ability to target audience. And we've been hard at work particularly since we launched the registration model at building proprietary first-party data segments and, frankly, weaning off of third-party data, weaning off of using other people's data. And that I think is going to prove to be a really resilient and performative set of ad products for marketers. And we're beginning to see that now. Alexander Iosilevich Terrific. Let's talk a little bit about the digital partnership side of the business. Last year, we had an interesting chat with Mark around Facebook and the Apples of the world. Would love to take your view on that. Were there good partners for you? Or what are the right partnerships for you? And what do you look forward to in terms of expanding outside of your business? Meredith A. Kopit Levien - The New York Times Company - President, CEO & Director Yes. Let me do a bit of context on that one because I think it's more interesting if you think about like the track of our geometry to the platforms over the last 4, 5, 6, even 7 years, the time that I've been at the company. In my early years at the company, when we would face a decision, like should we participate in Facebook instant articles or live, should we be one of the early partners to Google when they launched AMP, those were really hard questions to figure out the answers to and they required a fair amount of just intellectual tussling to sort out whether and how and what we should do. As our subscription-first strategy became much more sort of clear that it was the central business strategy of the company. The answer -- the sort of decision tree for how to work with any platform also became much, much clearer. And so now we say, well, what does it take do the things I've talked about earlier to really lean into the subscription opportunity and grow in a moment when habits are up for grabs. We need to scale our direct relationships with our users. We want to bring them to experience news on our destination, first and most, because our destination, we think, is the best environment to experience Times journalism and increasingly to experience journalism. And also our destination is where we monetize best, certainly through subscriptions, but also through advertising. And so we think really hard about how does a relationship to a platform or participation in any number of things they might do, how does it answer those first 2 questions? And we've been at that now for a few years. And I would say more recently, we've become focused on -- it is incredibly expensive and labor intensive to produce quality journalism, original journalism. And on behalf of The Times and other journalism providers, we want to make sure that if a platform or a tech company is getting value from that journalism and, in some cases, this is providing a partly or wholly substitutional product, we want to make sure that there's sufficient compensation to do that. Again, the first 2 things I said are the most important in that decision tree. So increasingly, we look at that as well. And just as an example, we chose to participate in the Facebook News tab because we think we were able to check all 3 of those boxes. And we did not continue to participate in Apple News, but we certainly don't rule out Apple plays a really important role in the ecosystem. We're doing other things with Apple, but we did not continue our participation in Apple news for the same reason. 8 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 09, 2020 / 5:05PM, NYT.N - New York Times Co at UBS Global TMT Conference (Virtual) Alexander Iosilevich Understood. Let's talk a little bit about podcasting. Certainly, a hot topic in the market, lots of activity, lots of M&A. We heard earlier today Bob Pittman and Rich Bressler from iHeartMedia talking about their podcasting business. Would love to hear your perspectives on that sector and how The Times will play in it. Meredith A. Kopit Levien - The New York Times Company - President, CEO & Director Yes. There, again, I think in audio, we are just in the foothills of a sort of new era and what I think will be a very exciting era of audio storytelling, audio entertainment, narrative news, audio journalism. And I think our ability to command a very large audience for The Daily has given us a lot of optionality in terms of introducing new things to the world. I described that already. I'm really bullish on listening as a big use case for news. It's why we're investing so much into The Daily. I'm also really bullish on audio journalism generally and listening to journalism to be something that continues to play a really big role in the subscription funnel for The New York Times. And we do that today in 2 ways. And by the way, that's The Daily, and it's also some of the other shows that we've launched, but first and most in The Daily. The Daily is largely one story a day. In listening to that story, you're -- you get to be intrigued by all the surround sound to that story, how did the journalist come to get that story? How -- what is its context? You get even more understanding for it. And often, that makes you more interested in that story or that journalist or that topic. So there's a natural effect of sending people to The Times for more information. And then there's a really direct benefit, which will sound small, but has been incredibly effective, which is our own -- we use our own ad inventory in The Daily to have our journalists talk about their work and explain how subscription support that work. And that's some of the most effective advertising that we do. I'd be remiss if I didn't say that in the short and medium term, I've already said, I think audio is a very strong ad business. It has some of the character that linear television had where there -- yes, there's a lot of audio, but there's not a ton of really, really high-quality audio that repeats multiple days a week or multiple weeks. So our -- we think that will hold up for a while, at least, as a strong ad business. And we don't rule out audio playing a more direct role in our subscription funnel as well. So we're bullish and optimistic just as the folks you've described. I do think, if I look at the pattern in digital news, I think quality and sort of professional expertise and just like really making great shows or being a home for really great shows and really great -- [in all these] shows, really great audio experiences will be the thing that is certainly our focus. And we think if we pull that off, there's a great business to be had there. Alexander Iosilevich Terrific. We got about 3 minutes left. So I'll ask you one last question. You have a terrific balance sheet, a lot of cash, no debt. You're generating very steady and growing cash flow. Your share price just hit all-time high in the last hour. Congratulations on that. And just tell us a little bit about your capital allocation policy and how do you think about that topic. Meredith A. Kopit Levien - The New York Times Company - President, CEO & Director Yes. I'll say 2 things about that. But the first one and probably the most important one is I expressed at the beginning of this discussion that we are really ambitious about what we want The New York Times to achieve. And we really believe that we can play a bigger role in the lives of the people we're already in and that we can play a role in more people's lives. And so we're going to invest into that opportunity. We've already done that organically for the last few years. We'll keep doing that. But we certainly don't rule out inorganic investment or working off the balance sheet to grow the value of The New York Times and be able to mean more to more people. We don't rule that out in our core news product or in the idea of supplemental or journalism products that are in adjacent spaces. So within things like games or beyond them, we don't rule any of that out. Our acquisition of Serial Productions is in that spirit. And we are certainly open to using the balance sheet in that way, using the balance sheet to pursue the opportunity. 9 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 09, 2020 / 5:05PM, NYT.N - New York Times Co at UBS Global TMT Conference (Virtual) The only other thing I'll say, which is more a look back point, which is it's been useful to have that balance sheet this year. We -- it gave us the sort of confidence and the girding to be able to keep investing in the business. Listen, the ad business looked like a really scary proposition in the second quarter. But we kept investing in the journalism, kept investing in the tech, kept investing in the digital product to propel subscriptions and even in aspects of the ad business. And that's in part because we've been able -- we have a very long view and we want to be able to seize the long-term opportunity, and the strength of the balance sheet gave -- helped give us some confidence to do that. Alexander Iosilevich Thank you so much. I think that's about all the time we have. Terrific to have you and look forward to hopefully having you next year in person. Meredith A. Kopit Levien - The New York Times Company - President, CEO & Director Thanks for having me, Alex. See you soon. Alexander Iosilevich Take care. Meredith A. Kopit Levien - The New York Times Company - President, CEO & Director Bye-bye. DISCLAIMER Refinitiv reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes. In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized. THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES REFINITIV OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS. 2020, Refinitiv. All Rights Reserved. 13537480-2020-12-09T19:24:38.230 10 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 09, 2020 / 5:05PM, NYT.N - New York Times Co at UBS Global TMT Conference (Virtual)
REFINITIV STREETEVENTS EDITED TRANSCRIPT WMB.N - Williams Companies Inc at Wells Fargo Virtual Midstream and Utility Symposium (Virtual) EVENT DATE/TIME: DECEMBER 09, 2020 / 8:20PM GMT REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS John D. Chandler The Williams Companies, Inc. - Senior VP & CFO CONFERENCE CALL PARTICIPANTS Praneeth Satish Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, Research Division - Senior Equity Analyst PRESENTATION Operator Welcome to the Wells Fargo Virtual Midstream and Utility Symposium. Before we start, please note that Wells Fargo events are by invitation only. Members of the press or media are not permitted to join. If you are a member of the press or media, please disconnect at this time. Also, please be advised that today's conference is being recorded. Thank you. Praneeth Satish - Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, Research Division - Senior Equity Analyst Okay. Good afternoon, and thanks, everyone, for sticking around this long to the final presentation of the day. We've saved the best for last here. Pleased to be joined by John Chandler, who is the SVP and CFO of Williams. I think we may also have Danilo Juvane, who's the VP of Investor Relations. Before we start, just a quick reminder. If you want to ask a question, there's 2 ways to do it. You can either raise your hand in Zoom, click that button, or e-mail me at praneeth.satish@wellsfargo.com, and I'll ask on your behalf. But in the meantime, I've got a bunch of questions prepared. So John, maybe we can just jump into Q&A, if that works for you. John D. Chandler - The Williams Companies, Inc. - Senior VP & CFO That sounds great. QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS Praneeth Satish - Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, Research Division - Senior Equity Analyst Okay. Great. So I'll start with the recent announcement on the global resolution agreement with Chesapeake. Maybe if you can just provide some background to that and also quantify how much rates were reduced in the Haynesville and what you bought back for that in exchange? John D. Chandler - The Williams Companies, Inc. - Senior VP & CFO Yes, thanks for that question. As long as I've been here, there's been a lot of questions around Chesapeake. And Chesapeake has been obviously fighting their leverage situation for several years and that -- that in of itself has consequences for us as a company, just given the fact that they were capital constrained, and that's never good for your producer to have that -- be in that kind of situation. But more broadly for us, I think there was a concern about Chesapeake's impact of the bankruptcy on us. All along, we've said that, to the extent -- and this is across the board, to the extent you're connected to the wellhead and to the extent you have a substantial system, it gives you a lot of power or a significant standard and payable relative to your agreements in the case of a bankruptcy. A lot of people heard that, but I think wanted to see that play out. So we're -- that's the good news around this resolution is that demonstrates that in (inaudible). 2 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 09, 2020 / 8:20PM, WMB.N - Williams Companies Inc at Wells Fargo Virtual Midstream and Utility Symposium (Virtual) And so if you think about the resolution that we have with Chesapeake, of course, it's still subject to the bankruptcy court approval, which we hope will happen here in very short order. But as it relates to that resolution, in the Eagle Ford, we have wellhead connectivity there, very substantial system. We had a cost of service agreement with Chesapeake that we converted to an MVC last year, a very sizable MVC payment that we're receiving from Chesapeake, and we had a rate increase. And so -- but Chesapeake has agreed that they're not rejecting that contract. They really can't. I mean it's a substantial system, again, connected to wellhead. It will take a very long period of time to [spud and] replicate the system and build the new system after reserves have already been produced somewhat out of the basin, just -- it'd be hard for somebody to see what their rates do. So that's good news. So they will continue along with their contract and their MVC and their rates, as already agreed to. And of course, it'll pay us for all (inaudible) receivable. So we'll be brought (inaudible) fairly soon on that. Not clear if that will happen here in the next week or 2 or it will happen right at the beginning of next year. It's kind of subject to board approval or the court approval of our agreement. As it relates to the Bradford Supply Hub, we've said there, too, it's great acreage that Chesapeake owns. The cost of service agreement, they've been very successful in drilling that acreage and the rates, as a result, are low there. And we didn't think anything would happen there and nothing had, as we're continuing on there. Although we do hope and expect that you may see some more activity from Chesapeake in the Bradford Supply Hub now that they're better capitalized. And so finally, it brings us to the Haynesville. It's the only place where we really did change an agreement. And in the Haynesville, we had already offered Chesapeake as well as a number of the other producers in the basin incentive rates relative to our base rate to develop new acreage and bring new production to the system. Our base rate was higher than the market, we knew that. And so we've already been offering those incentive rates. The only thing we hadn't done is reduce our rates relative to the PDP production owned by Chesapeake. And so as part of this resolution, Chesapeake asked us to lower that rate. And so they could permit more activity to that market, if we would do that, more drilling activity. And so we ran that analysis and concluded that in lowering our rates. We believe there would be enough drilling actually to offset that. So we'd be NPV neutral, even just from the exchange of the rate for the new drilling, although we were not willing to take that bet just on its face. So we did seek other sources of NPV. And so as a result of this resolution, Chesapeake did give us about 50,000 acres in the Southland field area, so to the southern part of our Haynesville system. There's existing production there today, about 130 producing wellbores there. So they're suggesting PDP production there today, and there's certainly a lot of acreage that could be developed. There's a lot of producers down in that area, smaller producers that are developing acreage. It gives us the right and the ability to actually determine who's going to own this acreage long term. We're not going to be in the business of owning the upstream acreage. That's not what we want, but we do want to control who's drilling that, and it will give us a nice NPV uplift. And so likely the structure that unfolded in the Southland field area will be some kind of partnership with a drilling partner. They will disproportionately pay for development capital. And over time, they will eventually own the acreage or own a significant percentage of the acreage, and we'll walk away from the acreage, but still receive all the midstream value. So when the dust all settles, at a minimum, we see this as an NPV neutral deal for us. But the reality is, if the development can occur the way we think it can, it would be very, very attractive to us. So we're on (inaudible) development activity. So again, when the dust all settles, I think the market side breathes a sigh of relief and in fact, it played out like we said it was that now we could hold our ground relative to our agreements with Chesapeake. I think a lot of people are asking us what kind of rate concession we have to agree to? And I will tell you, our rates in Haynesville in the mid 50% per Mcf range and market rates were about 40% less than that. So we did -- on existing PDP production, we brought our rates down by about 40%. When the dust all settles, as we think about our EBITDA generation next year, there may be a slight dip in EBITDA in the Haynesville. We expect additional production, but at a lower rate, we may see a slight dip. By 2022, we expect that to pick back up, and we'll see better EBITDA. 3 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 09, 2020 / 8:20PM, WMB.N - Williams Companies Inc at Wells Fargo Virtual Midstream and Utility Symposium (Virtual) Praneeth Satish - Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, Research Division - Senior Equity Analyst Okay. That's very helpful. That makes sense. I guess maybe if you could turn to -- just your overall G&P operations, what are you seeing from producers? Just a quick overview on the latest developments there? And then maybe any preliminary commentary you could provide in terms of volume expectations heading into '21? John D. Chandler - The Williams Companies, Inc. - Senior VP & CFO Sure. First of all, on our earnings call in the third quarter, we did say that we expected to see EBITDA growth into 2021 -- off of 2020. And we still see that and still believe that we're going to see that going into 2021. As we look at our basins that we operate in, of course, with the Permian associated gas kind of fallen off as production has fallen off there, that certainly strengthened our Haynesville position and strengthened the Northeast. That's the good news. The bad news is we've got some well-capitalized producers who say, I don't like price, and I'm not going to produce them without more significant price curve. So Taggart, for example, is continuing to say they're going to operate in maintenance mode. And as a result, we would expect Susquehanna in the Northeast to be generally flat from a volume standpoint. Chesapeake operating the Bradford, we expect to see a little bit of a volume uptick there, but they pay a pretty low rate. So I wouldn't transpire that into significant EBITDA uplift, but a little bit of EBITDA uplift from the Bradford Supply Hub. Southwestern, as said, I think in our earnings calls, they need to see a more sustainable long-term gas price as well. And so they may operate in a maintenance mode in kind of Marcellus. However, I would say they are very active drilling, and they've seen significant volume growth this year. And so when they talk about maintenance, I think they're talking about exit rate from a volume standpoint. So what that means for us? We do expect to see a little bit of growth in volumes around the Marcellus supply hub. More importantly, that's liquid-rich volume, and we've invested a lot in our processing capabilities and some of our NGL infrastructure in the area. So we do expect to see some EBITDA growth from additional processing volumes at our facilities. So -- and then finally, I'd say, around Laurel Mountain Midstream, Chevron hasn't been actively drilling that over the last year, while we've been in the sales process, [EPP]. It looks like we'll be the acquirer of that property. And of course, I think they would eventually start developing that again when they feel like prices stabilize. In the meantime, volumes will fall off a little bit there, but it's subject to MVC. So from an EBITDA standpoint, we expected -- anyway, when you put all that together, we expect slight volume growth in the Northeast, nothing substantial, but we do see a slight volume growth in the Northeast. In the West, we -- again, we expect to see some volume growth out of the Haynesville, but it will be at a lower rate, so a large portion from an EBITDA standpoint. The Barnett, we may see a little bit of growth out of the Barnett. In the Eagle Ford, while volumes could be flat to down a little bit since there wasn't a lot of drilling activity from Chesapeake this year, but it really doesn't matter to us from an EBITDA standpoint to say this was expected by MVC. So as we look to the West, in aggregate of all of our basins, we expect kind of flat to maybe slight growth in the West as well. And maybe -- that doesn't mean our EBITDA will grow over there. There's a whole different agreement we have on Overland Pass Pipeline. This could be a little bit step-down on our Overland Pass Pipeline system. So the West may be down a little bit from an EBITDA. Northeast is going to be up a little bit from an EBITDA standpoint. Our transmission systems will be up a little bit just from new pipeline projects brought into service and we don't have the hurricane season like we had this year. 4 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 09, 2020 / 8:20PM, WMB.N - Williams Companies Inc at Wells Fargo Virtual Midstream and Utility Symposium (Virtual) Praneeth Satish - Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, Research Division - Senior Equity Analyst Okay. That's very helpful. And then if I could just tie that into just total EBITDA, which you expect to be modestly up in '21, is there anything else that we should factor in here when you're looking at '21 versus '20? John D. Chandler - The Williams Companies, Inc. - Senior VP & CFO No. I think, again, just some big things to think about. The hurricane activity had about $40 million inflow. Hurricane and COVID and oil price shock and some of the producers in the deepwater Gulf shut down for a short period of time. So when we aggregate the impact of that shutdowns (inaudible) all that volumes return and the hurricane activity, it had about a negative $40 million impact towards 2020. We're not counting on that to happen again. So we should see an uplift of $40 million from that. Offsetting that, we've had a tremendous year from a cost savings standpoint. And we started this back in -- actually, 2019, we are very focused as a company on operating margin percentage, which is the amount of EBITDA divided by our gross margin. And we look at that by franchise by franchise, and we insist with our management, but we can't let that go backwards. And so we saw that going backwards in 2019, because we thought gas prices were going to be low, we saw some lower revenues coming. And so we jumped into action and cut $75 million of salary wages out of our business in 2019. So that was already done by the time we got to the end of 2019. And we did that through a voluntary severance program and reductions in force. So while a lot of people are talking about cost reductions this year, we already did that. In addition, obviously, COVID created cost savings, not nearly as much travel occurring within our company. And there were some also -- some maintenance issues, where sometimes it's just hard to get crews in the field due to the travel restrictions even service providers are experiencing. So as we look to a total year, I think our cost savings could be in the tune of $110 million to $125 million, sort of in that range, 2020 over 2019. And that, by the way, also includes after a pretty good uptick in operating taxes. So that's even net of an increase in operating tax. So we've done a great job in cost reduction. We think of that increase, I'm talking about, or decrease in cost to $110 million to $125 million, at least 2/3 of that was there, but there could be 1/3 of that coming back our way. Just again, it's COVID related, timing related. How much of that comes back is going to be a function of how long are we going to continue to be in this environment (inaudible) things like that. So I guess I say all that to say, good news, the deepwater Gulf of Mexico should pop up from the lack of hurricane activity. Bad news is we still -- our overall costs are down, but we could see a rebound of some of those costs that would offset that. And overall, the growth in the Northeast and the growth will offset -- the growth in the Northeast, some of the growth on the transmission systems will be more than offsetting [obviously] in the West. Praneeth Satish - Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, Research Division - Senior Equity Analyst Okay. That's very helpful. We've seen G&P valuations improve over the last few weeks. I know in the past, you've been looking to sell your West G&P assets. Where does that stand today? And do you think we can actually see a transaction next year? John D. Chandler - The Williams Companies, Inc. - Senior VP & CFO That's -- it's hard to know exactly when we see a transaction. I can tell you we're still interested. If there was an opportunity to do something like that, we would entertain that. But -- so there's some pluses and minus -- some good things that happened. When we were talking about selling an interest in our gathering systems in the West last year, we were having -- we were fairly far down the path of having conversations with a number of private investors -- private equity investors, who've had interest in that. They had a lot of the same questions that a lot of investors have about, what might the cash flows look like with Chesapeake bankruptcy filing, what about a tough commodity environment, how does all that shake out? We still have got a lot of interest actually even with those concerns. 5 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 09, 2020 / 8:20PM, WMB.N - Williams Companies Inc at Wells Fargo Virtual Midstream and Utility Symposium (Virtual) So the good news is, relative to where we were at the beginning of the year, I think there's a lot of questions that have been answered relative to that, which I think add to confidence by those investors. That's the good news. Another thing that happened, obviously, the high-yield market disappeared there for a long period of time. It's kind of starting to resurface. I mean not as much for energy, but it's starting to resurface. And so any investor in a joint venture with us probably was going to back leverage their investment, we wouldn't want an investment to occur at the joint venture level or debt, but obviously, they would have counted on back leverage. So that market's got to improve, in my mind, still or actually want to see a transaction that we would find attractive. And the final thing I'd say. I think coming out of this environment, there are some single basin, single producer midstream systems that struggled here. And I think there's probably going to be some opportunities over the next 6 to 9 months. And the question is, do you want to be selling an interest when there's distressed assets in the market and the answer is probably know. We've got a quality system with quality cash flows. And so we'll have to see how all that shakes out. The good news is we're migrating towards our leverage target of 4.2. We think we'll be getting in the ZIP code at the end of 2021 and certainly into 2022, we'll get there. And so we don't have that kind of thing driving us. But I think, again, coming out of this environment that we've been in and how our EBITDA is held in there, I think it should create a lot of confidence. And for what it's worth, a lot of people don't appreciate this, but our gathering systems in the West are massive free cash flow generation machines. There's not a lot of reinvestment in well connects. So we already have substantial systems connected to a lot of wells. And so there's a lot of EBITDA with not a lot of capital. And so that's what really attracts us investors reach free cash flow generation coming out of this as well. So really, bottom line is we'll stay in tune with that market. And who knows, maybe an opportunity emerge, I don't see there anything coming in the near term, but we're still interested. We're still talking to people. And the conversations have twisted a little bit now more towards, would we entertain operating a system that maybe a private investor might be interested and acquired? And so those are interesting things for us to evaluate and our desires there would be to create synergy value for existing assets, if we could. And so we'll be looking at those probably more so in the interim to see if anything makes sense on that front. Praneeth Satish - Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, Research Division - Senior Equity Analyst You covered a lot of topics there. So I'll dig into some of it. So in terms of the -- your leverage and getting to your target sounds like in either '21 or '22. Once you get there, you may get this question asked a lot, but how do you rank buybacks versus dividend growth? And also in the context of the recent improvement in stock prices, has that changed your desire to do buybacks at all? John D. Chandler - The Williams Companies, Inc. - Senior VP & CFO Well, no. I would say and there's a lot of sub points to that question. First and foremost, we see a lot of value in getting our leverage right. And we think we get a lot of questions from investors about terminal value. And I think embedded in terminal value is ESG question, is natural gas a long-term fuel? We think absolutely in any -- even the most aggressive renewable analyst acknowledges that gas has to be part of the solution even over the long run. So that's part of the answer. And part of the answer is having your leverage right, too. So now, we targeted 4.2 as the right leverage metric, and we believe that's where we needed to get to be solid BBB with S&P, Moody's and then Fitch. S&P and Moody's -- S&P and Fitch already have us there. We're having conversations with Moody's. We think we've done a lot to improve our stability of our cash flows this last year. And so we hope they acknowledge what the other agencies are to acknowledge. And so what that says is 4.2 or even something slightly higher than 4.2 qualifies for BBB investment-grade status. And that's what we want. We want people to have confidence. Now the question -- the unfortunate alternative part of that answer is, we need new generalist investors investing in the energy space. Today, you see a lot of cycling of capital, we'll trade up and Morgan (inaudible) Magellan, you name it, trade down, and then 6 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 09, 2020 / 8:20PM, WMB.N - Williams Companies Inc at Wells Fargo Virtual Midstream and Utility Symposium (Virtual) another day, we trade down and they trade up. And I think it's just money moving around baskets. And we've got to break out of that cycle. And so we've got to bring generalist investors in. In that world, we're hearing from some that 4.2 seems high relative to the broader industry -- investable industry. And so once we get to 4.2, I think we need to evaluate our -- do we have traction with our investors? Do we see a solid price that's supported? If not, if we believe we could bring in additional investment by bringing leverage down further, we'll do that. If we do think we're where we need to be, then from a leverage standpoint -- or we believe that taking it down further isn't going to really attracting investors. And I think share buybacks are front and center, and (inaudible) And it's just hard to know. We feel like we should trade back utility today. I think we would debate our cash flows to have a shown -- maybe even more stability than utilities EBITDA over the last several years. And our leverages last and our yield is higher. And so we hope to attract those investors and drive our share price by the time we get to the end of next year. And if that does happen, and again, obviously, I think we see value on our side. The other thing I'd say, too, though is we'd have to evaluate us when we get here. There's a lot of projects that we don't do today. And I would just say use Transco as an example. Transco has significant capacity under its rate base for us to invest in replacing facilities and just modernizing the whole system. We choose not to do those today because they don't stand up to deleveraging, number one, and just our other capital approval projects that we look at. And if you think about the rate base, the returns embedded in those kind of projects, it's never really clear in a rate case on what the agreed-to rate was, but I think the people will be probably in at 12% to 13% range. So that's -- that's the equity piece of the rate settlement and the debt piece is 5% to 6%. You're looking at blended returns on those kind of investments in the 10% range or 11%. Not bad when you think about they're back by utilities, A rated credit utilities. And it certainly relates to additional EBITDA growth for us. So that's certainly another thing, I think, we'd look at -- so I gave you a lot of words and not a straight answer, and I think it's just going to be a function of where with you share price when we get there and whether or not we're bringing those investors in -- new investors (inaudible). Praneeth Satish - Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, Research Division - Senior Equity Analyst There's a lot in there. So I guess in the context of that, you are making investments into solar, converting your compressors to solar, how do the economics there stack up to paying down debt, deleveraging, buybacks? Yes, I mean, does that stack up to the 10% -- higher than the 10% rate that you quoted? John D. Chandler - The Williams Companies, Inc. - Senior VP & CFO Yes, they do. They do. Those investments that we're making match up with our midstream investments we make otherwise. And it's because we're serving [own mode]. The investments we're talking about on the solar aren't becoming a solar developer, putting in solar around other company's assets. It's really about looking for where we have electric-driven compression today. And we burn a significant power load in those markets and what it will cost us to build solar and to plant that electricity that's serving those electric compression today. So the projects we've identified are around those facilities, and they absolutely must stand out relative to our mix and returns to do it. We've talked about [Areco] $200 million of investment opportunities to support our (inaudible) electrified compression. And so we put a team together to pursue that. Now that doesn't mean that it doesn't make sense to bring people that can take advantage of the tax credits that are back in solar and other sources of energy. We can't take advantage of that, unfortunately, today. We're a noncash taxpayer for several years. So we've looked to somebody that could partner with us. And of course, that bring our capital costs down pretty significantly, if we had this part (inaudible) from participating. Today, the projects that we're looking at stand total (inaudible) with our midstream investments. 7 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 09, 2020 / 8:20PM, WMB.N - Williams Companies Inc at Wells Fargo Virtual Midstream and Utility Symposium (Virtual) Praneeth Satish - Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, Research Division - Senior Equity Analyst And so it does sound like buybacks are still very much front and center when you can get to the point that you do them. Is -- do you envision doing buybacks on an opportunistic basis or setting kind of a programmatic formula-based on your free cash flow? John D. Chandler - The Williams Companies, Inc. - Senior VP & CFO I hate to even speculate on that. We've not -- again, we're laser-focused on deleveraging our assets in the last few years. And we have had some conversations about share buying back to the Board, but it's never advanced to the point of talking about what kind of program we put in place. And I think that actually gets on the Board on that. Praneeth Satish - Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, Research Division - Senior Equity Analyst Okay. Fair enough. We've got some questions that are coming in. One of them is, you're seeing various states utilities make decarbonization pledges hitting net 0 by X date. How does that impact the volumes on Transco over the long term? John D. Chandler - The Williams Companies, Inc. - Senior VP & CFO I think of -- think of this in these terms. A lot of the utilities that are doing that are doing it: A, they could be doing it by moving those -- emissions reductions is really what those utilities are after and in part, doing that by switching to -- switching off coal-fired generation to gas generation. That's one way that they're hitting net 0 type emissions targets. Also, to the extent they invest in solar or wind generation, the reality is until battery technology is sufficient, they have to have backup capacity with peaking plants to be able to supply power to the markets when the sun is not shining and the wind is not blowing. And it makes no sense to have a peaking plant when you don't have capacity on Transco. And so we -- it's just -- I think it's important for investors to understand, we don't make money by volumes that ship on Transco. We sell firm capacity. And we don't see that going away. Utilities have to have firm capacity to backup their backup plans for renewable power, and I don't see that changing for the foreseeable future. Praneeth Satish - Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, Research Division - Senior Equity Analyst So you've kind of shifted -- if you kind of put all this together, you kind of shifted into this lower EBITDA growth mode, it's understandable given the environment. But I'm wondering, are there any larger potential initiatives that you're looking at, that could kind of accelerate growth or is this just kind of the new norm, generated a lot of free cash flow, send it back to shareholders? John D. Chandler - The Williams Companies, Inc. - Senior VP & CFO Yes. Well, first of all, I'd say, we really haven't shifted to a lower mode. I mean I guess it's injected upon us as a company. In part, that's driven by a few things. Generally, we have 2 or 3 major pipeline projects going at a time, we had at least historically had that going. And we were hopeful that we would have the Northeast Supply Enhancement project we'd be working on now to supply New York and that did -- that helped really, but that would be a project we would have been working on would add nice EBITDA uplift probably at the end of '21. And so we don't have that in front of us. In the meantime, though, we've got some other great projects on the horizon. We've got Leidy South that will come into service late next -- in late '21. We're working on a project called Regional Energy Access. This is a project that serves kind of the Northeast area. And we think from a permitting standpoint, get that done reasonably well. And so -- and then we've got a number of other -- the ACP pipeline, the [demanded] ACP pipeline. We already serve North Carolina and South Carolina, and there was real demand backing that pipe and certainly makes sense for us to step in a void. 8 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 09, 2020 / 8:20PM, WMB.N - Williams Companies Inc at Wells Fargo Virtual Midstream and Utility Symposium (Virtual) And we think there's a number of projects we can do to take advantage of that demand. And of course, there's a lot of power (inaudible) in the Southeast, is still on hold. And of course, LNG exports are starting to pick back up again. And on top of all that, I would say this, you've had a weak gas price for the last 1.5 years. And you had globally a warm winter, not just in the U.S., had it across the world. And so LNG was kind of weak here for the better part of this year. And that will probably continue into next year a little bit, but I think the prognosis is that with a more normal winter, you're going to see gas demand really picks back up. And therefore, I think long story short, I think we see growth returning -- more healthy growth returning for our transmission systems when you get beyond '21. Deepwater is coming on, and we expect a pretty significant increase in EBITDA in the '24 to '25 time frame in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico. And then around our gathering systems, we're in the best basins for natural gas in the lowest cost basins, some of the best producers. And so with a more normal winter and a return of LNG exports, I think we expect to see more robust growth coming out of there. This -- again, I'd say we haven't really shifted our focus. It's kind of been shifted on us. And I think we see -- number one, good news is, in spite of all that, we see some growth in EBITDA next year and beyond that -- and we're free cash flow -- we expect we will probably be free cash flow positive. And then beyond that, we see kind of a better growth coming back our way (inaudible). So we feel good about how things were backing up for us. Praneeth Satish - Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, Research Division - Senior Equity Analyst No, that makes sense. And then just on regional energy access, I think Chesapeake, part of the settlement, it seems like they made some commitments on this project as well. Does that bring it closer to FID at this point? Do you have what you need? John D. Chandler - The Williams Companies, Inc. - Senior VP & CFO It does. Yes, we're getting close to having what we need. We are trying to build commercial demand for the system. We've got a pretty good book of business behind that. Certainly, the Chesapeake commitment helps on that front. Obviously, lingering out there, too, is the Penn East project. I think to the extent, that feels like that's not going to happen. There could be opportunities there. We'll have to see like that. I would say we're getting a lot closer with Chesapeake. Praneeth Satish - Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, Research Division - Senior Equity Analyst Okay. And then last question because we're getting short on time here. You've laid out some fairly ambitious plans as it relates to renewables, at least from a midstream perspective, one of the first to do so. To get to those targets, do you need to hire more people? Do you need to enter into JVs to get expertise or make acquisitions of renewable companies? How do you get from Point A to Point B? John D. Chandler - The Williams Companies, Inc. - Senior VP & CFO Well, interesting enough, we started -- our missions target started with the Paris Climate time frame, which is mid-2000s. And so we've already -- number one, we intended on setting a target. And a lot of people are setting 2050 targets and those targets, they won't be around to see that. And we thought that's not serious in our opinion. And while we have a 2050 target of net 0, we have a 2030 target, which holds us all accountable, but we're at 40% already. We want to be at 56% reduction of emissions by 2030. We're already at 40%. And we've done that through a number of things. We've sold some businesses that have higher emissions related to them. We have changed our procedures on how we evacuate the pipe when we're doing maintenance. We've put in cameras to look for methane leaks on our system. I think we're probably one of most advanced people doing that. And so it's more of that as we go forward of continuing to tighten up our primary containment, our leads, our maintenance efforts, the blowdowns that we'll do in the pipeline. And yes, in the future, I'm sure we will be making -- hydrogen will be part of that answer too, to the extent we invest in hydrogen blending along our systems. We're connecting renewable natural gas along our systems, and we have 6 facilities connected today. And of course, solar is part of that as well. Again, we've kind of taken the first step there with our solar power compression. 9 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 09, 2020 / 8:20PM, WMB.N - Williams Companies Inc at Wells Fargo Virtual Midstream and Utility Symposium (Virtual) So it's an all above thing. It's investments on our systems. It's replacing compression on our existing system, even the gas-fired compression with -- we're working with our shippers on Transco to invest on -- along our system to enhance our mission. So it's all the above. But the good news is, I'd say, we've already made significant progress. And we just do a linear kind of calculation, that 56% reduction is what it takes to get to net 0 by 2015. So we'll be well on our way. Praneeth Satish - Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, Research Division - Senior Equity Analyst Great. Well, we have a lot more questions, but not enough time. So I want to be respectful for your time. This has been great. Thank you for participating. And hopefully, we can all get vaccinated and meet in person next year in New York. John D. Chandler - The Williams Companies, Inc. - Senior VP & CFO Very good. Thanks. [I hope you stay safe]. Praneeth Satish - Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, Research Division - Senior Equity Analyst Take care. Bye. DISCLAIMER Refinitiv reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes. In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized. THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES REFINITIV OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS. 2020, Refinitiv. All Rights Reserved. 13537492-2020-12-10T00:05:47.540 10 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 09, 2020 / 8:20PM, WMB.N - Williams Companies Inc at Wells Fargo Virtual Midstream and Utility Symposium (Virtual)
REFINITIV STREETEVENTS EDITED TRANSCRIPT CLH.N - Clean Harbors Inc at BMO Capital Markets Growth & ESG Conference (Virtual) EVENT DATE/TIME: DECEMBER 08, 2020 / 7:00PM GMT REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS Brian P. Weber Clean Harbors, Inc. - EVP of Corporate Planning & Development Michael L. Battles Clean Harbors, Inc. - Executive VP & CFO CONFERENCE CALL PARTICIPANTS Jeffrey Marc Silber BMO Capital Markets Equity Research - MD & Senior Equity Analyst PRESENTATION Jeffrey Marc Silber - BMO Capital Markets Equity Research - MD & Senior Equity Analyst Hi, good afternoon. It's Jeff Silber with BMO Capital Markets. I'm the analyst that covers Clean Harbor. CLH is the ticker. We're thrilled to be joined this afternoon by a number of members of the management team, Mike Battles, who's the CFO of the company. Brian, it Weber or Webber, I'm sorry. Brian P. Weber - Clean Harbors, Inc. - EVP of Corporate Planning & Development It's Weber, Jeff. Jeffrey Marc Silber - BMO Capital Markets Equity Research - MD & Senior Equity Analyst It's Weber. I thought you said that earlier. So I just wanted to make sure. And Brian, I just lost your title, but... Brian P. Weber - Clean Harbors, Inc. - EVP of Corporate Planning & Development EVP of Corporate Planning and Development. Jeffrey Marc Silber - BMO Capital Markets Equity Research - MD & Senior Equity Analyst I know it's Corporate Planning and Development. I didn't want to lose the EVP part, so I'm glad you say that. And then Jim Buckley, who runs IR for the company. And we're thrilled to have all members of the management team here with us today. For those of you that are dialing or listening in, you have the opportunity to ask questions. There should be a box for you to ask a question on the app. Or if for some reason, that's not working, feel free to send me an e-mail at Jeff, J-E-F-F, dot Silber, S as in Sam-I-L-B as in Boy-E-R@bmo.com. Again, it's jeff.silber@bmo.com. And why don't we start off with just a high-level question. Just there may be some folks on the line that might be new to the story. Can you guys just provide a quick overview of your company before we get into the specific areas? Michael L. Battles - Clean Harbors, Inc. - Executive VP & CFO Sure, Jeff. Good afternoon, everyone. I want to thank Jeff and the team at BMO Capital Markets for having Clean Harbor an opportunity today. Appreciate all the opportunity for outreach to our investors or potential investors. 2 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 08, 2020 / 7:00PM, CLH.N - Clean Harbors Inc at BMO Capital Markets Growth & ESG Conference (Virtual) This is Mike, and I'll start with a quick overview of the company. So it's actually a very interesting company. It's about -- last year, we were about $3.4 billion in revenue. We were about $540 million of EBITDA, north of $200 million of cash flows. And really, we go out and take hazardous waste out of the marketplace and dispose it in our permitted facilities, whether that be our 9 commercial hazardous incinerators, our hazardous landfills, wastewater treatment facilities, transfer stations. And so we go out mostly in small quantity or large quantity generator of waste, think of the larger chemical companies, and we go out, pick up that waste and bring it into our network. Hard to replicate, permanent assets that will give us a real competitive advantage. There's only 13 commercial hazardous incinerators in North America, and we own 9 of them. So it really does allow us to have a very wide moat. There hasn't been a new permanent facility in over 20 years outside of our own. And really I'm very proud of the story. It really has an interesting background. It was started 40 years ago by Alan McKim. Alan is the founder and still the CEO of the company, owns about 7% of the company. So still very active in the business kind of here every day and kind of running the business and really a great success story, a true American success story where kind of 4 guys in a truck kind of putting it all together and building kind of this Fortune -- S&P 400 company. And again, something that he's very involved in kind of every day. We also do -- we're also the largest collector of dirty motor oil, used motor oil. And it's about 250 million gallons and really a great kind of green story. So we pick up the dirty motor oil. We run it through 6 re-refineries and make base oil, which is crude oil, motor oil, basically, and sell that back to our customers. And so when you think about an ESG initiative, we are pulling out 0.25 billion gallons of dirty motor oil out of the marketplace and making good motor oil. And so really a great story there. I think that -- think about the company, we try to recycle what we can. But ultimately, when we've extracted all value out of the assets, it is ultimately getting -- it does get incinerated. And we have an industry-leading safety record, a strong level of compliance and, again, led by a founder that is still kind of active every day. And really, I've been here for about 7 years as a CFO. It's a great company to work for and really a fascinating story for people who don't know the history. QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS Jeffrey Marc Silber - BMO Capital Markets Equity Research - MD & Senior Equity Analyst All right. Great. That's a great overview. And why don't we dig into it a little bit. And maybe we'll start with the larger of the 2 segments, Environmental Services. Can we just kind of step back and talk about what happened at the beginning of the pandemic to this business and how it's, I guess, bounced back since that time? Michael L. Battles - Clean Harbors, Inc. - Executive VP & CFO Yes, sure. So the Environmental Services business of the $3-plus billion, it's a little over $2 billion. So it's about 2/3 of the overall business. And when the pandemic hit, it was obviously, we were concerned about -- for our employees, for our customers, make sure they're all safe. And it's really that some parts of that business, like our project work that goes into our landfills, slowed down. But like everything else, we're an emergency response business, Jeff, at our core. And we saw a great opportunity, given our compliance and safety standards to go in and clean out sites that have been infected with COVID or potential decontamination work. And so that turned into a kind of north of $100 million business and part of our emergency response field service business, where we actually go out, done over 10,000 emergency responses to date in that area. We'll go out to a warehouse and someone had been sick with COVID. We're bringing our foggers and our hazmat suits and do a deep clean and usually at an oddball hour. So let's say, it's a distribution center that closes at 8 that's open up at 5 next morning, we'll go in at 2:00 in the morning and do that big, deep clean and get it ready for the next day. And that's been a huge benefit and almost like a natural hedge, guys, and really has been. As certain parts of our ES business have slowed down, that decontamination work, done this at oddball hours, we can try to put a decent rate, has been a nice offset and really has been -- for the Environmental Services business, I'd say 2020 wasn't that big of a difference from where we originally had thought kind of, let's say, pre-COVID, if you will. 3 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 08, 2020 / 7:00PM, CLH.N - Clean Harbors Inc at BMO Capital Markets Growth & ESG Conference (Virtual) And so that's been down a little bit, but really not nearly as much. And it really got a little upside down because our revenue is down, but our EBITDA is up. And the reasons behind that is because of this mix shift of [EV] that we -- again, some businesses slowed like in Western Canada or industrial services, not super high-margin business anyways and offset by the decontamination work, along with some federal funding, both in the U.S. under the Cares Act and on the Canadian Emergency Wage Subsidy program in Canada. So both those helped us as well in the ES business and drove, I'd say, what looks like on the surface a very normal year, even though it's anything but normal, as we all know. Jeffrey Marc Silber - BMO Capital Markets Equity Research - MD & Senior Equity Analyst So as we dig a little bit down, so what's going on with those different aspects of mix now? Are you seeing decontamination work going away? Are you seeing the project work picking up? If you can get us up to speed, that will be great. Michael L. Battles - Clean Harbors, Inc. - Executive VP & CFO Sure, Jeff. So the interesting thing is that we talked about this in the Q3 call that Q4 would be better than Q3. Q3 is better than Q2. And that's certainly what's happening. I don't -- although that we do read the same newspapers, you, everyone else reads about lockdowns and shutdowns and so forth, we really haven't seen it in our business. And not only that, Jeff, but the decontamination work, which we had forecasted to be slowing down as the year rolls itself out, really hasn't slowed down very much. And so as you can imagine, with infection rates being kind of going -- unfortunately, going through the roof, there is continuing a need for that -- for those services. And so what's happening is that we're kind of getting the best of both worlds, where we're getting the decontamination work kind of staying kind of unabated, and yet the business continues to recover, let's say, as expected. So again, I'm really kind of a little bullish on how we finish out the year here. Jeffrey Marc Silber - BMO Capital Markets Equity Research - MD & Senior Equity Analyst All right. That's great to hear. So when we kind of look through COVID, how do you differentiate the different services that you provide within ES compared to some of the other companies that are out there? Michael L. Battles - Clean Harbors, Inc. - Executive VP & CFO Yes. We are the only company that has a full suite of disposal options, right? You compare it to other companies in our space, maybe they have landfills, maybe they have an incinerator, maybe they have TSDFs. Nobody has kind of the full suite of kind of end-to-end disposal network. So like, for example, like things like, we'll get into PFAS, but there's a big debate as to what happens with PFAS? Does it get -- if it gets labeled a hazard, to go into hazardous landfill, if it had to be incinerated, how do you treat the water and everything else. And the good news is that kind of regardless of what happens here for -- from a regulation standpoint, we're the only company in North America that provides a full suite of services and would be able to attack it no matter what the endgame is here. So I mean, I think that that's a real big different -- in my opinion, that's a big differentiator because often we do working with a large company like a Dow or a DuPont, I mean they have waste streams that need a variety of different treatments. Some need to be treated in a landfill and some can be put into an incinerator, some need to be treated first before they go in either place. So we offer all those services. And that's why we have such great relationship with our customers and how sticky we are kind of with our customers because of the fact that we can offer this end-to-end service, and that's certainly differentiating us with our peers. Jeffrey Marc Silber - BMO Capital Markets Equity Research - MD & Senior Equity Analyst All right. That's great to hear. So again, just kind of looking beyond COVID, what do you think that the normalized type of growth that we should see for your ES business? And if you could break it down between volume and price, that will be helpful. 4 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 08, 2020 / 7:00PM, CLH.N - Clean Harbors Inc at BMO Capital Markets Growth & ESG Conference (Virtual) Michael L. Battles - Clean Harbors, Inc. - Executive VP & CFO Sure, sure. So at the end of the day, because we have this moat that has tough-to-replicate permanent facilities, we've been able to charge incremental price over the past 20, 30 years. And that's 3% to 5% per year for the incineration, for example. And so that, in my mind, in a -- even in a normalized year, that's how it works. And we've been able to drive that. And also what's happened, Jeff, is that in the incineration world, there's been a shift of higher-to-destroy, tougher-to-treat hazardous wastes into the network. And we think that's due to the growth in the Gulf with the low prices of natural gas and the growth of the chemical industry and the manufacturing space. And that's generated more hazardous waste streams, hard to destroy, higher price points. And so that's led to a better mix in our business. 6 of the last 8 quarters, we've grown pricing over 10%. And that price is about, 1/3 of that is price and 1/3 of that is mix. And so I think that mix stream has been really been a big differentiator in the ES business. And I think in a post-vaccinated world, that means nothing has changed. And that we still had a good year in that area, and I think that continues well into the future. There's plenty of high hazardous waste streams out there. The drum volumes and the direct burn streams of the highly chlorinated and highly fluorinated waste streams, that's been a big win for us, they continue into 2021 and beyond. Jeffrey Marc Silber - BMO Capital Markets Equity Research - MD & Senior Equity Analyst That's great. So based on that and, again, kind of looking long term, where do you think margins can go in this segment? Michael L. Battles - Clean Harbors, Inc. - Executive VP & CFO Yes. We haven't really gone into the individual segments yet. We're in the middle of our budget process now. And as part of that, we do a strategic 5-year review. I would say that over the last 11 -- for the whole company, Jeff, without getting into SK versus ES for a minute, we've grown margins 11 straight quarters year-over-year. And that's just a fact. That's been well before COVID, well before any government funding. We've been growing our margins 11%. We've said publicly many times, 25 to 50 basis points of margin expansion is, in my mind, very reasonable and very doable. That's leveraging our incinerators, our landfills, our headcount and driving that business going forward. And how it breaks down between the different businesses, it gets a little confusing because the Safety-Kleen business gives us containerized waste streams and the margins get a little screwed when you start doing that. But overall, I think that -- overall, I think the 25 to 50 basis points is very reasonable expectation. And if you look at our 5 -- an internal 5-year model, that would tell you that. Jeffrey Marc Silber - BMO Capital Markets Equity Research - MD & Senior Equity Analyst Okay. Okay. That's actually really helpful. Let me just go back to ES for a couple more questions and then we can move on to Safety-Kleen. We talked earlier about what happened to the business because of the pandemic. Do you think there are to going be any long-term changes to the ES segment because of what we've been going through? Michael L. Battles - Clean Harbors, Inc. - Executive VP & CFO Yes. I'd say 2 or 3 things. I'd say that the first of which is that if you think about what happened in March, April and May and how supply chains got completely disrupted and critical supply lines got -- slowed to a crawl, I wonder, if you and I were starting a company tomorrow, would we make more investment in the U.S. to get our supply chains of critical parts closer to our end customers, closer to our manufacturing. And so I'm of the view that an onshoring of manufacturing is going to happen. And any time you do that, whatever it is, there's going to be, whether it's pharma, whether it's -- whatever it is, there's going to be hazardous waste that comes out of it, either in the building of the site where you put a shovel in the ground with hazardous material in soil or, of course, what the byproducts are of the manufacturing process. 5 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 08, 2020 / 7:00PM, CLH.N - Clean Harbors Inc at BMO Capital Markets Growth & ESG Conference (Virtual) Jeffrey Marc Silber - BMO Capital Markets Equity Research - MD & Senior Equity Analyst Okay. That's good. Michael L. Battles - Clean Harbors, Inc. - Executive VP & CFO The other thing I'd say is that whether we like it or not, whether -- it's not related to the pandemic, of course, is that there are climate changes here to stay and there are more natural disasters than less. And I hate to say that, but that's -- in some ways, that's a winner for us, right? That's -- emergency response is how the business was formed. And when there's a spill or a pipeline rupture because of a natural disaster, because of a hurricane, and that's opportunity for us, opportunity for all the companies in our space. So I believe that that's a long-term catalyst that will continue kind of indefinitely, unfortunately, really. Jeffrey Marc Silber - BMO Capital Markets Equity Research - MD & Senior Equity Analyst Yes. No, sad but true. That's okay. One more on ES before we move over to Safety-Kleen. I remember we had you guys at this conference last year, and I think every other question was about IMO 2020. Can we just kind of revisit what happened, what the impact could have been and what happened instead and what you think the impact might be going forward? Michael L. Battles - Clean Harbors, Inc. - Executive VP & CFO Yes. No -- so Jeff, I think that, that was part of the stock price run-up when we got a little excited about IMO 2020 which, interestingly enough, happened. And what's happening and is still is happening, both us, you go ask our peers the same question, and we're seeing it in the spread. Our spread is getting wider on the -- certainly on the front end of the spread, when you talk about, you use motor oil because there's less outlets for that dirty motor oil, we've been able to charge more. And as you know, both in Q2 and in Q3, we got record charge for oil levels. What's screwing it up a little bit is demand. I mean, demand has really kind of masked that goodness in this business where demand has kind of cratered, as you know, in Q2 and in Q3. And as such, all this good news around IMO kind of got lost in the shuffle. I'm of the view in a post-vaccinated world that, that comes back and back with a vengeance. And I think we're going to be in a much better spot in that business because of the fact of IMO 2020, certainly on the front end of the spread. In the back end of the spread, there's a lot of variables around what happens to base oil and whether it be international demand in China and Saudi Arabia and Russia, okay, we can fight this battle. But on the front end of the spread, something under our control, we've certainly done a good job of managing that and improving the charge for oil and the spread, just doing the simple math, has widened in fact about a $0.10, I'd say. Jeffrey Marc Silber - BMO Capital Markets Equity Research - MD & Senior Equity Analyst If you can remind me, before COVID, did you guys ever size out the opportunity, what you think -- thought it might be? Michael L. Battles - Clean Harbors, Inc. - Executive VP & CFO I mean, look, it's actually pretty simple to do. You'd say, we collect about 240 million, 250 million gallons of used motor oil a year, $0.01 is 2.4 million, and there you go. And that's just on the front end of the spread. And so that's the power of price, right? So that is the deal. Jeffrey Marc Silber - BMO Capital Markets Equity Research - MD & Senior Equity Analyst Okay. That's really helpful. All right. Why don't we move on to Safety-Kleen. And again, I'll ask the same question that I asked earlier on the ES business. Can we just revisit how the pandemic has impacted the business so far and get us up to speed on current trends there? 6 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 08, 2020 / 7:00PM, CLH.N - Clean Harbors Inc at BMO Capital Markets Growth & ESG Conference (Virtual) Brian P. Weber - Clean Harbors, Inc. - EVP of Corporate Planning & Development Sure, Jeff. This is Brian Weber. I think the reduction in vehicle miles traveled certainly negatively impacted the business early on. And in Q2, we were running at about 70% of our historical levels. In Q3, we saw that increase to about 80% of normal. And as we're here in Q4, we're at about 90-plus percent of normal. So we've seen a steady and gradual recovery. And while personal vehicle mile traffic is down, commercial traffic is up, and we're seeing some benefits from that. Jeffrey Marc Silber - BMO Capital Markets Equity Research - MD & Senior Equity Analyst And is there any difference in the business in terms of a mix shift where it comes from? Brian P. Weber - Clean Harbors, Inc. - EVP of Corporate Planning & Development I don't think so. I don't think we've noticed any difference in terms of mix. Michael L. Battles - Clean Harbors, Inc. - Executive VP & CFO Yes, they both suffered in Q2 pretty bad, and they both have recovered, Jeff. If you remember in the Q2 call, we talked about SK Oil being just marginally profitable in Q2, and that's where they were, and they were better in Q3 and then they're better in Q4. Jeffrey Marc Silber - BMO Capital Markets Equity Research - MD & Senior Equity Analyst Okay. That's great. Now we're seeing some news about some areas that are starting to lock down again and you might see that impact miles driven. Are you seeing any impact on your SK business in those areas? Brian P. Weber - Clean Harbors, Inc. - EVP of Corporate Planning & Development We're not. We haven't seen any impact yet. Maybe too early to tell, but so far, no negative impacts. Jeffrey Marc Silber - BMO Capital Markets Equity Research - MD & Senior Equity Analyst Okay. That's really helpful. So again, just kind of stepping back, looking through COVID, how do you differentiate what you do in this business compared to some of your competitors out there? Brian P. Weber - Clean Harbors, Inc. - EVP of Corporate Planning & Development I think there's a few things, Jeff. I think our size and scale differentiates us. So we operate out of 200 locations across the U.S. and Canada. We're the #1 used motor oil collector, as Mike mentioned. We're the #1 re-refiner of used motor oil. We're #1 in parts washer services. We can offer a closed-loop service offering to our customers where we can pick up used motor oil and deliver to them lube -- re-refined lube oil on the same truck. So I think all of those things really differentiate us. Jeffrey Marc Silber - BMO Capital Markets Equity Research - MD & Senior Equity Analyst Okay. That's great. Do you think there'll be any long-term changes to this segment of your business because of the pandemic? I know we talked about ES already, but I'm just wondering about this segment as well. 7 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 08, 2020 / 7:00PM, CLH.N - Clean Harbors Inc at BMO Capital Markets Growth & ESG Conference (Virtual) Brian P. Weber - Clean Harbors, Inc. - EVP of Corporate Planning & Development I don't think so. I think there's some positives that we expect. I think people will probably be reluctant to rush back to public transportation. And so I think vehicle miles traveled should increase in a post-vaccinated environment. So that should benefit our business. And as Mike said, we weren't really able to realize the back end of the IMO 2020, where we get a higher price for our low-sulfur finished products, and hopefully, that's still to come. Jeffrey Marc Silber - BMO Capital Markets Equity Research - MD & Senior Equity Analyst Okay. Why don't we talk about longer term. I know when I read about the transportation segment of the market, all you can hear and see is about the acceptance of electric vehicles. What do you think, if we do move in that direction, how are you positioning your business against this trend? Michael L. Battles - Clean Harbors, Inc. - Executive VP & CFO Yes. We get that question from time to time around EVs and how they're taking over the world. That's certainly some people's views. And my sense is -- so just so we're all grounded in reality here, it's under 2% of all cars in North America. And any car being cranked out today has a 13-year life. So I think that it may happen down the road and let's just play it out to its ultimate conclusion, right, so that I'd say 2 things. I'd say, first of all, that if the answer is, we're all going to be driving around in electric cars and there are going to be charging stations everywhere we need them and say the awesome, awesome, all those gas tanks, all those gas stations need to be closed and all those tanks need to be removed from those gas stations. Just they're under the same criteria that everyone else is, Jeff. And so I'm of the view that there's billions of dollars of market opportunity there. And we do this all the time. We remove tanks, and it's $200,000 to remove a tank, even assuming there's no contamination. And if there's a contamination, it goes from there. And so my view on this is that, if that were to happen, if we're all going to be driving kind of awesome electric cars, then what's going to really happen is all those tanks, forget the pipelines, forget the refineries, forget the entire infrastructure that exists across North America, I mean just the gas stations alone would be a multi -- would be a huge win for Clean Harbor because that's our whole business model. The other thing I'd say is that, hey, if we're talking about oil demand going down, that $2 billion now, and let's say, it goes to $1 billion, I'm making this up because all these great electric cars don't need oil, the -- in pressure to meet ever-increasing ESG demands, one would think that a green oil that was re-refined from crude and kind of no dinosaurs killed in the process, if you will, would be a great ESG story. And one more -- and so I think -- it's my view, Jeff, that the market is coming to us. And they're going to be -- if it goes from $1 billion -- $2 billion to $1 billion, I'm making that up, we're going to be a bigger share of that. And that oil will be more in demand than conventional motor oil. And so whether you're talking about passenger cars going electric, I doubt trucks and heavy hauls and everything else are going to all go electric. And I still think there's going to be quite a demand for oil. And by the way, what's better for the environment than green motor oil that costs less to make and has the same quality if not better quality than conventional motor oil. So I'm all for EV. Let's go. Jeffrey Marc Silber - BMO Capital Markets Equity Research - MD & Senior Equity Analyst All right. That's great. It's actually a good segue to one of the questions we've gotten in. And again, if anybody has any questions, just put it in the app. I'm going to characterize this a little bit, but just can you ask management how they think of themselves as an ESG investment? Michael L. Battles - Clean Harbors, Inc. - Executive VP & CFO Yes. So I'll take that. And I'm of the view that this is a very -- it's a great question because when you think about hazardous waste incinerators, and if you haven't seen one, it's probably everything you imagine. They're big. They're very big, and there are a lot of pipes and a lot of smoke. But the 8 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 08, 2020 / 7:00PM, CLH.N - Clean Harbors Inc at BMO Capital Markets Growth & ESG Conference (Virtual) -- but at the end of the day, that is the greenest answer for the environment because the alternative for taking these very dangerous, kind of some of the most dangerous chemicals on the planet, would be in soil or groundwater, right? So where does it go? And so my view on that is that we are -- so we're going to issue an -- our ESG score has improved 40% since this time last year. We're really proud of the progress we're making in that area. It's not enough. We're going to issue a sustainability report in Q1 of 2021 with good metrics, all with SASB compliant and really it's part of the progress we're making in that area. My view on it is that we have our own footprint. We have our own -- how much water we use, how much electricity we use, all that stuff, how much diesel we use, all that stuff is going to be in the report. But what we don't capture and what we should capture is the fact we collected almost 250 million gallons of dirty motor oil. The alternative would have been burned or thrown in the ditch or something happening to it. So again, I think our ESG story is great. We've made some improvements in the basic scoring, but I think our story still needs to be told and still needs to be understood by the marketplace. Because again, the alternative for an incinerator or a landfill is in the river. And really, it really is a great ESG story that needs to be better told. And I think we're a great ESG investment because we're taking waste from the network and disposing of it properly. Jeffrey Marc Silber - BMO Capital Markets Equity Research - MD & Senior Equity Analyst All right. That's great. I think you put a case for it. So hopefully, the individual that asked the question got some good color on that. One more question on SK before we move on. We talked a little bit about potential long-term growth in the ES segment. Can you talk about what you think the potential long-term growth is for SK and kind of bridge it out the individual components of that? Michael L. Battles - Clean Harbors, Inc. - Executive VP & CFO Yes. Sure. I think that when you think about it for a minute, I'm of the view that we have a dominant position in the marketplace. We are #1 both on the ES branch business, the 200 branches across North America, as well as the SK Oil business. And so -- and that position allows us to drive price, and it has been driving price in that business and will continue. Again, we've been able to get a good price for both parts washer services, containerized waste services, small quantities of hazardous waste and then back services, cleaning out a grease trap or dirty rainwater that's gotten into the auto body shop. So again, I think that the long-term growth metrics for that business are very good. We can talk about -- you can talk about the growth in the end markets, but I think that our position in the market is undoubted #1. And we're the only one who has national presence, and that gives us great pricing power. Jeffrey Marc Silber - BMO Capital Markets Equity Research - MD & Senior Equity Analyst All right. That's great. We've got another question on the SK business, so let me just circle back to that one. So when you would discuss the EV aspect going forward -- I'll just read this. Rather than assume that we go from one choice like fuel to another being electric, what do you think is the middle ground and when we will get there in terms of like a hybrid alternative? Michael L. Battles - Clean Harbors, Inc. - Executive VP & CFO I mean, at the end of the day, I mean, there's going to be less gas stations, right? So at some juncture, those tanks have got to come out. And so even if you go down to this middle ground where there's a lot of cars in the road still, which still feeds our business, as well as electric cars, my view on that is that those tanks are -- if gas stations are closing, which they would need to close, if it happens of some hybrid model, that would be a winner for us. 9 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 08, 2020 / 7:00PM, CLH.N - Clean Harbors Inc at BMO Capital Markets Growth & ESG Conference (Virtual) Jeffrey Marc Silber - BMO Capital Markets Equity Research - MD & Senior Equity Analyst Okay. I want to go back to the margin discussion. And again, we'll just talk about it at the company level, not necessarily segment. And again, this is -- this dovetails with one of the questions we're getting from the audience. So the company looks like you're going to achieve pretty stellar margins this year. And maybe you can talk a little bit about why? And do you think that's sustainable going forward? Michael L. Battles - Clean Harbors, Inc. - Executive VP & CFO Yes. So this year, it was a unique year because of some federal funding. We did get about 30 -- during the first 9 months of the year, was $36 million in government funding, both in the U.S. and in Canada. We said on the call, on the Q3 call, it's $3 million to $5 million in Q4. So let's say, for the purposes of saying, $40 million of incremental government funding. That doesn't come back in 2021. And so -- and that's part of the great margin story in 2020, especially, in Q3, when we hit over 20%. I think that the good news is that we've done 11 straight quarters of margin improvement even without the pandemic, and that continues over the long haul because of our unique pricing position, both on the SK and on the ES side as well as our good cost management, led by Brian, as well as our unique assets, which we can continue to leverage. Jeffrey Marc Silber - BMO Capital Markets Equity Research - MD & Senior Equity Analyst All right. And this is kind of a follow-up to that. I don't know if you'll answer this, but I'm going to ask anyhow. When we look at adjusted EBITDA in dollars, do you think that goes up from 2020 to 2021? Michael L. Battles - Clean Harbors, Inc. - Executive VP & CFO I would say that if you look at what the Street has on for us now, which is in the $540 million range, which is very similar to where we were in 2019, I think that's probably right. The midpoint of our guidance is also $540 million for this year. So maybe $540 million equals $540 million equals $540 million. And I think that's fine. I think the margins will be much better in 2021, given the fact that in 2021, we're not going to have -- the SK business won't have recovered all the way yet. And so that will still be some pressure on the business. But I'm of the view that our EBITDA dollars will be as good, if not better, in 2021. And yes, our margins will be much better. Jeffrey Marc Silber - BMO Capital Markets Equity Research - MD & Senior Equity Analyst Okay. You answered the question. I appreciate that. Thanks so much. Another question is from the audience. Are there any key economic or industry metrics that you think would be helpful for investors to track the expected progress in your different businesses? Michael L. Battles - Clean Harbors, Inc. - Executive VP & CFO Yes. So it's really the 2 we give out -- the 2 or 3 we give out are different based on business. I would say on the Safety-Kleen side, simply it's more than miles driven, but miles driven is a pretty decent indicator, right? Again, that drives -- it doesn't capture all the different types of driving, but it did give you some indication of where the general market is going, and that drives both on the SK branch side, the new brakes, the new mufflers. And on the SK Oil side, [new mile] change. That's a good indicator on the SK side. On the ES side, I'd say 2. I'd say just straight industrial production metrics or GDP metrics, I think, are good ones as well as the chemical activity barometer by the chemical industry. They crank both those out, I think, a pretty good indicator. And that chemical activity barometer has been on 10 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 08, 2020 / 7:00PM, CLH.N - Clean Harbors Inc at BMO Capital Markets Growth & ESG Conference (Virtual) the rebound all year. It's only like 2% or 3% lower than this time last year. So it's a -- which I think is very consistent with where we are and what we said publicly many times. So again, those are pretty good KPIs that we would look at. And as we look at kind of setting budgets and different things like that, we look at stuff like that. But we don't look at general oil price -- but we don't look at oil price because we are not connected to oil. We are a spread business. Oil is an interesting data point, but it has nothing really to do with our -- with 99% of our business. Jeffrey Marc Silber - BMO Capital Markets Equity Research - MD & Senior Equity Analyst Yes. I think that's helpful. I think a lot of times investors just kind of look at the correlation there and don't really realize that it doesn't really have much to your business. Unfortunately, I think it has more with your stock price. But it's what it is. Michael L. Battles - Clean Harbors, Inc. - Executive VP & CFO And that's why we're taking all these great calls with smart investors on the phone right today because I think that's something we just got to break because it makes no sense to me. Jeffrey Marc Silber - BMO Capital Markets Equity Research - MD & Senior Equity Analyst Yes. Okay. Michael L. Battles - Clean Harbors, Inc. - Executive VP & CFO That's not the way 5 years ago, that's not the way it is today. Jeffrey Marc Silber - BMO Capital Markets Equity Research - MD & Senior Equity Analyst All right. I appreciate you pointing that out. That is very helpful. At the beginning of the call, Mike, you alluded to PFAS. So why don't we dig into that a little bit more? Maybe at a high level just explain what it is and what impact it could have on your business? Michael L. Battles - Clean Harbors, Inc. - Executive VP & CFO Yes. So PFAS is just a type of chemicals called forever chemicals, which are used in a variety of different products, firefighting foam, teflon, made in the '80s and the '70s and '80s and in the early '90s. And what happened was that come to find out it's actually a known -- now it's a carcinogen. It's pretty dangerous, caused birth defects and so forth and so on. And so that's been slowly eliminated from the manufacturing process, but there's still a lot in the world. And these are chemicals that are pretty hard to destroy. They don't break down naturally. And so you really need -- so there's movement afoot in Congress and in the EPA to be labeled this chemical and chemicals like this as hazardous. And if it is labeled as hazardous, then there's certainly an opportunity as to -- normally when they do something like that, they say, like PCBs or asbestos, kind of how you have to destroy it. And whether it's putting it into a closed-loop landfill, which we have the most of in North America; or an incinerator, which we have 9 of the 13 commercial hazard incinerators, those need to be destroyed. And again, there's not any -- today, Jeff, it is not hazardous. It can be put into a non-haz landfill, a municipal solid waste landfill. But we think over the next year or so, especially with the Biden administration perhaps, that would spur action because a lot of it's in Ohio, a lot of it's in Michigan, and these are voting states, if you will, material voting states. And so there may be some pressure there to start cleaning some of that stuff up. It's 11 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 08, 2020 / 7:00PM, CLH.N - Clean Harbors Inc at BMO Capital Markets Growth & ESG Conference (Virtual) a high concentration in firefighting foam and the Department of Defense Bill today has money set aside to clean up kind of used in fire -- in drills, like both on -- at military bases and at airports, where a lot of it is there, like they do all the firefighting foam drills. And so that's -- and that's highly concentrated in firefighting foam. So that's where the first step is. They've been focused more on groundwater, which we don't do a lot with. We do more on soil remediation. And so we have a big business in that right there. So -- and when this happens, we've been talking about PFAS for a couple of years now. It does take a long time for these to get designated as hazardous. But like PCB that took 5 years for that to happen, like asbestos took years for that to happen, it's going to happen -- it will happen. It does hurt people. And it needs to be labeled as hazardous. And the problem is, Jeff, you need to have kind of a federal designation because until that happens, people aren't going to -- they don't really know what level of concentrate they need to clean to, right? How clean do I have to make the soil? How clean do I have to make the water? Until then, like, why will I do much maintenance because I'm not sure if I'm doing enough or too much. And so we really need that regulation to kind of spur investment in that area. But I'm of the view, as a long-term catalyst for this business, that's #1 with a bullet in my opinion. Jeffrey Marc Silber - BMO Capital Markets Equity Research - MD & Senior Equity Analyst Yes. Have you -- one of the investors is asking a question, have you quantified what the potential opportunity might be? Michael L. Battles - Clean Harbors, Inc. - Executive VP & CFO It really depends at what level of concentrate you have to get to, right? So the answer is part per trillion or whatever the answer is, well, that's a huge win. If the answer is, well, it's -- again, it all depends on what level of concentration we need to clean to. The answer is, it's everywhere. It's in -- it's everywhere. It's actually in every one of us. It's crazier to think. Jeffrey Marc Silber - BMO Capital Markets Equity Research - MD & Senior Equity Analyst It's a little scary, but I guess it's true. So it's okay. I have another question along these lines a little bit, but we're talking about more from an ESG perspective, are there any plans to change your old vehicle fleet to being powered with green energy like fuel cells? Michael L. Battles - Clean Harbors, Inc. - Executive VP & CFO Most of our fleet is a heavy-haul fleet, and so it needs that drivetrain, the power to kind of operate. And so it would be difficult at this juncture to kind of make those conversions. We do it in some places, we have a few of them set but really not at the level of -- not at a meaningful level. Jeffrey Marc Silber - BMO Capital Markets Equity Research - MD & Senior Equity Analyst Okay. You had mentioned PFAS and mentioned potential changes from the Biden administration. Is there anything else out there that might be either positive or negative that we might see this new administration put into place? Michael L. Battles - Clean Harbors, Inc. - Executive VP & CFO In general, Jeff, we've been asked this question under every -- every 4 years, we get asked this question. Whether it's a Democrat, Republican, conservative or progressive, at the end of the day, what we're dealing with is very dangerous. And normally, when a new administration comes in there, maybe fuel efficiency standards or air quality or water quality, it doesn't -- they don't touch what we're talking about because it's pretty dangerous stuff. And once something gets labeled as a hazardous material, it doesn't get labeled nonhazardous. It remains a hazardous material. And as such, it still remains something that needs to be destroyed. 12 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 08, 2020 / 7:00PM, CLH.N - Clean Harbors Inc at BMO Capital Markets Growth & ESG Conference (Virtual) So in general, it's really where the states is where the enforcement happens, and those don't change very much because what we're talking about here is pretty dangerous stuff. Jeffrey Marc Silber - BMO Capital Markets Equity Research - MD & Senior Equity Analyst Okay. Just a segue to that, another question we're getting in from the line. If Biden raises the minimal wage, will that have any impact on your cost structure? Michael L. Battles - Clean Harbors, Inc. - Executive VP & CFO All our employees are paid above the minimal wage today. Jeffrey Marc Silber - BMO Capital Markets Equity Research - MD & Senior Equity Analyst Okay. That's the answer. Great. Why don't we circle back to big picture. We'll look at capital allocation. How do we think about your company's potential free cash flow generation? And what are your priorities for investment and allocation of cash? Michael L. Battles - Clean Harbors, Inc. - Executive VP & CFO Sure. So we're going to -- the midpoint of our guidance this year is $260 million. With that, we did get some loans from the government through payroll -- employee payroll nonsubmittal, which many companies did. And that's going to be about $36 million for the year, plus or minus. That has to be paid back half in 2021 and half in 2022. And as such, that's like a $54 million headwind, if you think about it, $36 million that's not going to repeat as well as an $18 million payback, right? That's all fine. That's good. I'll take the interest-free loan. I think it's great. And when it happens, we were pretty happy about it. So -- but -- so we're going to end the year -- so I think, though, that even with that big headwind, if you will, we're going to -- 2021, so we're going to have a 2 in front of it. That's for sure, free cash flow, and probably in the $210 million, $215 million range. We have to -- look, we have to finish our budget process, Jeff. We have to go through a CapEx review, which we're doing, we're kind of finalizing this week and next, but I'm of the view that CapEx was up a little bit, not up to 2020 levels, 2020 budget levels, but still I'm of the view that the free cash flow generation, this is $200 million going to $300 million. I have no doubt that over the long term, this thing is really turning into a cash flow machine and we'll have a ton of cash flow over the next 4 to 5 years. Jeffrey Marc Silber - BMO Capital Markets Equity Research - MD & Senior Equity Analyst So what will your plans be for that cash? What are your priorities? Michael L. Battles - Clean Harbors, Inc. - Executive VP & CFO So the first area is we want to make sure we invest in the business and invest in CapEx, whether that be in rolling stock, we have 10,000 pieces of rolling stock, whether that be in our incinerators or re-refinery. We know where the money is. That's where the money is, that's where the money is made. We got to make sure those are running well on the efficiency. We do have plans that guys have come up a couple of times over the next 2 to 3 years, adding 20,000 to 30,000 tons of capacity into the network. That's really debottlenecking other processes within our incinerators, which will add value, which costs a little bit of money to do so. 13 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 08, 2020 / 7:00PM, CLH.N - Clean Harbors Inc at BMO Capital Markets Growth & ESG Conference (Virtual) The other area is that, we do have a buyback program. We have about $250 million remaining under our buyback program of an original $600 million plan. So that's out there. And we think the stock is pretty cheap still at this price, and we think that there's opportunity to buy back our stock at a reasonable price. And the last area is in M&A. And I think that I got the EVP of Business Development here. Why don't you talk about kind of where we would deploy our capital. Brian P. Weber - Clean Harbors, Inc. - EVP of Corporate Planning & Development Sure. Yes, I think we've got -- in terms of the portfolio of services that we offer, we don't really have any voids there. But there are some geographies where we could do bolt-on acquisitions to build greater density, and we would prioritize acquisitions in our core Safety-Kleen environmental and Clean Harbors environmental space. Jeffrey Marc Silber - BMO Capital Markets Equity Research - MD & Senior Equity Analyst And would they be geographically in North America? Is it North America is where the focus is? Brian P. Weber - Clean Harbors, Inc. - EVP of Corporate Planning & Development It is. Yes. We think there's more room to grow still in North America, Jeff, and that's where our focus is. Jeffrey Marc Silber - BMO Capital Markets Equity Research - MD & Senior Equity Analyst Okay. And we're getting a question from the line on the M&A. Have we been seeing deals in the sector? Where are acquisition multiples trending? Brian P. Weber - Clean Harbors, Inc. - EVP of Corporate Planning & Development I would say slowly but surely deals are starting to reemerge. Obviously, there was limited activity from the spring throughout the fall because of lack of visibility on earnings of target companies and the challenges with trying to do diligence and integration planning remotely. And so for all those reasons, activity was quite muted. Starting to see a little bit more activity, and I would say multiples are in the -- still in the kind of the low double digits. Jeffrey Marc Silber - BMO Capital Markets Equity Research - MD & Senior Equity Analyst And that's low double digits on, is it trailing or forward-looking EBITDA? Does it matter? Brian P. Weber - Clean Harbors, Inc. - EVP of Corporate Planning & Development It's on trailing. Jeffrey Marc Silber - BMO Capital Markets Equity Research - MD & Senior Equity Analyst Trailing. Okay. Great. That's... 14 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 08, 2020 / 7:00PM, CLH.N - Clean Harbors Inc at BMO Capital Markets Growth & ESG Conference (Virtual) Brian P. Weber - Clean Harbors, Inc. - EVP of Corporate Planning & Development I think because there's such still uncertainty around what forward-looking EBITDA looks like. Jeffrey Marc Silber - BMO Capital Markets Equity Research - MD & Senior Equity Analyst Yes. No, that makes a lot of sense. Okay. That's helpful. We're almost out of time. I guess I'll end with a big picture, long-term question. What do you think in 5 years from now when we're at this conference, what will your company look like? Michael L. Battles - Clean Harbors, Inc. - Executive VP & CFO I think that it's going to have -- I think that the top line growth is going to grow at GDP-type of plus level. I think that we're going to do 25 to 50 basis points of margin expansion a year. And I think that we're going to have $300 million of free cash flow. And then with that, we'll deploy that back into the business or (inaudible) or buybacks. Jeffrey Marc Silber - BMO Capital Markets Equity Research - MD & Senior Equity Analyst All right. That's all really helpful. Again, thank you, guys, everybody that's on the call that dialed in. And the folks from Clean Harbors really appreciate your time as well. And again, if there are any questions, you can follow with me, jeff.silber@bmo.com. Thanks so much. Michael L. Battles - Clean Harbors, Inc. - Executive VP & CFO Thanks, Jeff, and thanks the team at BMO. Brian P. Weber - Clean Harbors, Inc. - EVP of Corporate Planning & Development Thank you. DISCLAIMER Refinitiv reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes. In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized. THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES REFINITIV OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS. 2020, Refinitiv. All Rights Reserved. 13537495-2020-12-09T08:43:23.567 15 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 08, 2020 / 7:00PM, CLH.N - Clean Harbors Inc at BMO Capital Markets Growth & ESG Conference (Virtual)
REFINITIV STREETEVENTS EDITED TRANSCRIPT INCY.OQ - Incyte Corp Data Highlights from ASH 2020 EVENT DATE/TIME: DECEMBER 07, 2020 / 3:00PM GMT REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS Herv Hoppenot Incyte Corporation - Chairman, President & CEO Michael Booth Incyte Corporation - Divisional VP of IR & Corporate Social Responsibility Peter Langmuir Incyte Corporation - VP of Oncology Drug Development Steven H. Stein Incyte Corporation - Executive VP & Chief Medical Officer CONFERENCE CALL PARTICIPANTS Alethia Rene Young Cantor Fitzgerald & Co., Research Division - Director of Equity Research & Head of Healthcare Research Brian Corey Abrahams RBC Capital Markets, Research Division - Senior Biotechnology Analyst Cory William Kasimov JPMorgan Chase & Co, Research Division - Senior Biotechnology Analyst Evan David Seigerman Crdit Suisse AG, Research Division - VP & Senior Equity Research Analyst George Farmer BMO Capital Markets Equity Research - Analyst Jay Olson Oppenheimer & Co. Inc., Research Division - Executive Director & Senior Analyst Mara Goldstein Mizuho Securities USA LLC, Research Division - MD of Equity Research Department Marc Alan Frahm Cowen and Company, LLC, Research Division - Director Matthew Christopher Phipps William Blair & Company L.L.C., Research Division - Senior Biotechnology Research Analyst Michael Werner Schmidt Guggenheim Securities, LLC, Research Division - Senior Analyst & Senior MD Reni John Benjamin JMP Securities LLC, Research Division - MD & Equity Research Analyst Salveen Jaswal Richter Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - VP Stephen Douglas Willey Stifel, Nicolaus & Company, Incorporated, Research Division - Director Tazeen Ahmad BofA Merrill Lynch, Research Division - VP Tyler Martin Van Buren Piper Sandler & Co., Research Division - Principal & and Senior Biotech Analyst Robert Zeiser PRESENTATION Operator Ladies and gentlemen, good morning, and welcome to the Incyte data highlights from ASH conference call and webcast. (Operator Instructions) As a reminder, this conference is being recorded. It's now my pleasure to turn the call over Mike Booth, Head of Investor Relations. Please go ahead, sir. Michael Booth - Incyte Corporation - Divisional VP of IR & Corporate Social Responsibility Thank you, Kevin. Good morning, and welcome to Incyte's highlights from ASH conference call and webcast. The slides used today are available for download on the Investors section of incyte.com. I'm joined on the call today by Steven Stein, our Chief Medical Officer; and by Peter Langmuir, Incyte's Group Vice President, Targeted Oncology Therapeutics. Herv and Christiana are also on the call and will participate as needed in the Q&A sessions. We are also very pleased to be joined by Professor Robert Zeiser from the University of Freiburg in Germany, who will provide the important medical context for and a summary of the REACH3 results of ruxolitinib in chronic GVHD. There will be 2 Q&A sessions. (Operator Instructions) 2 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 07, 2020 / 3:00PM, INCY.OQ - Incyte Corp Data Highlights from ASH 2020 Before we begin, I'd like to remind you that some of the statements made during the call today are forward-looking statements, including statements regarding the commercialization of our products, our development plans and expectations for the compounds in our pipeline as well as the development plans of our collaboration partners. These forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that may cause our actual results to differ materially, including those described in our 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2020, and from time to time in our other SEC documents. I'll now pass the call to Steven for a few opening remarks. Steven H. Stein - Incyte Corporation - Executive VP & Chief Medical Officer Thank you, Mike, and good morning, everyone. Incyte can be thought of as having numerous opportunities across 4 quadrants: 3 in therapeutics and one more financial in nature, as described in Slide 4. We have made excellent development progress so far in 2020, with successful Phase III results in chronic graft-versus-host disease and in atopic dermatitis as well as securing 3 new FDA approvals for Monjuvi, Pemazyre and Tabrecta. In today's discussion, we are going to be focusing on the key data sets from the American Society of Hematology, with over 40 abstracts accepted, including 7 oral presentations. And we have chosen data from ruxolitinib, parsaclisib and tafasitamab to highlight for you today. Slide 6 shows the agenda for this 90-minute event. We are delighted that Professor Zeiser is joining us today, and he will begin our presentations with a summary of the disease and unmet need in chronic graft-versus-host disease, before sharing the REACH3 data that were presented for the first time over the weekend. After a Q&A session, I will share some important data from several ruxolitinib presentations including the EXPAND and RESPONSE-2 trials, before Peter presents updated data from the ongoing CITADEL program for parsaclisib in non-Hodgkin's lymphomas as well as the key highlights from several tafasitamab presentations, after which we'll open for a second Q&A session. As I said, we are delighted that Professor Robert Zeiser is able to join us today. Professor Zeiser is the Head of the Tumor Immunology and Immune Modulation Section at the Medical Center of the University of Freiburg in Germany, and is a true pioneer in the treatment of patients with chronic and acute graft-versus-host disease. It was his initiative that first showed the potential utility of JAK inhibition in the severe complication of allogeneic transplantation in his paper published in leukemia in 2015. And, of course, he's the first author of the REACH3 presentation at ASH this year. Professor Zeiser, thank you again for joining us, and I'll now pass the call over to you. Robert Zeiser Thank you very much for the kind introduction, Dr. Stein. It's a pleasure and honor for me to talk today about ruxolitinib for chronic graft-versus-host disease. So a little bit on the background and the clinical features of this disease. What you can see here are typical disease features of chronic graft-versus-host disease. In panel A, you see a patient who has severe sclerodermatous chronic graft-versus-host disease. You see the (inaudible) patient. And his skin is extremely hardened, so he can't stand up normally. And he's lean forward because of his fibrotic changes. In panel B, you see a local sclerodermatous change of the skin, indicating to you that this disease is very heterogeneous and sometimes affecting just certain areas of the body. The mucus membranes are also affected, as you can see in panel C. And (inaudible) as indicated in panel D, can also be hardened by the fibrotic changes which is -- induces difficulties in swallowing. The fingernails can be affected as seen as panel E; the eyes can be affected, panel F; and the lungs can be affected. If you investigate that by histology, you see increased collagen deposition as indicated in panel H, while lymphocyte infiltration as indicated in panel I and J. That brings me to the next slide. So the background here is a chronic graft-versus-host disease with these features that I've just shown you, occurs in between 30% and 70% of patients that undergo allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation. And it is a leading cause of nonrelapse mortality and mainly also morbidity in those patients. Candidates of standard first-line therapy are glucocorticosteroids. However, only 50% of the patients respond and the other patients become refractory or corticosteroid-dependent. These corticosteroids have fewer side effects. So also the 3 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 07, 2020 / 3:00PM, INCY.OQ - Incyte Corp Data Highlights from ASH 2020 patients that are dependent on steroids suffer not only from the disease, but also from the steroid-induced side effects. Currently no standard second-line therapy has been defined, and there have not been no successful large-scale randomized studies in this setting. So coming to the pathomechanism of this disease. And the first step in the pathogenesis of chronic graft-versus-host disease is that tissue damages induced. As shown here in this simplified image, you see that there are damaged or dying cells that release certain metabolites like adenosine triphosphate, uric acid IL-33 or HMGB-1. And those then activate different types of immune cells, mainly at this point, innate immune cells that can then be activated and present antigen to the incoming donor T cells like monocytes, dendritic cells, macrophages, as indicated here, and those then produce inflammatory mediators. There's also been observed that in the early phase of chronic graft-versus-host disease, endothelial injury takes place, and that leads then to reduced microvessel density. The second phase, T cells and B cells are activated, and they start to produce cytokines, including IL-21, IL-17 and interferon-gamma. Besides these activated T and B cells, and thymic damage that occurs during chronic graft-versus-host disease damages the epithelial cells and leads to a reduced education of the T cells, meaning that positive and negative selection of T cells in the sinus is disturbed. Besides that, also regulatory T cells and natural killer cells as well as invariant natural killer cells are reduced in the frequency and activity. In Phase III, the end organ damage occurs, meaning that there is various fibrotic changes and inflammatory changes that I've shown you. And here, the mechanism is such that macrophages that are activated and produce TGF-beta or PDGF alpha and activate the corresponding receptors of fibroblast, which then produce extracellular matrix, which is deposited in the tissue and leads to the sclerodermic changes as well as the connection of collagen by those extracellular matrix molecules. B cells differentiate into plasma cells, and those plasma cells produced immunoglobulins, which are also deposited and which also cause local tissue injury. So what are new targets? Highly experimental targets are those at (inaudible) events, for example, P2X7 receptor inhibitors, which interfere with the activation of these purinergic receptors, adenosine triphosphate. Now since (inaudible) inhibitors could be -- have activity and ST2 inhibitors. Then, toll-like receptor inhibitors or IL-1 beta inhibition quote have activity. These are very early and preclinical data, which are far away at this time point from a clinical application. In the second phase, kinase inhibition comes into play, which is important for the activation of antigen presenting cells, but also B cells and T cells. They're depending on tyrosine kinase or ITK and ROCK activity. And this can be blocked with respective kinase inhibitors that can also be improved by giving keratinocyte growth factor, at least that has been shown in the mouse model that you can improve thymic function when providing KGF, which would expand regulatory T cells and also the thymic epithelial cells. In the third phase, other targets come into play like pirfenidone has been shown in the mouse model of chronic graft-versus-host disease to have activity. JAK inhibition, as we have seen in mice and patients; tocilizumab, which interfere with the IL-6 receptor activation, imatinib to block kinase activation of cells in those fibroblasts. And, of course, targeting plasma cells with the immunoproteasome inhibitor bortezomib for that neutralization of IL-17. So before I come to the main study, I'll show you some of our earliest results. We have treated here patients with chronic graft-versus-host disease at a time point where they had not responded to multiple previous therapies. You see in this bar diagram, the majority of them had 3 prior therapies, but some of them had up to 10 prior therapies, and they are not responding here. You see the skin of such a patient who then responded and achieved a complete remission even. You can see here the bar diagram on the right, showing that the majority of the patients achieved a partial remission, meaning a symptom improvement and 3 patients achieved complete remissions. There are also some patients who did not respond at all. Those data where the motivation and the background, why a Phase III trial was conducted comparing ruxolitinib versus best available therapy in patients with steroid-refractory or steroid-dependent chronic graft-versus-host disease. And this is a clinical trial design, where patients had to be 12 years or older. They had to have steroid-refractory or dependent chronic graft-versus-host disease. Due to a lack of response after prednisolone at this given dosage, disease progression or an increase of prednisolone dose above this rate here and 2 unsuccessful attempts to taper. Also they had to have a myeloid and platelet engraftment. These patients are then randomized in a one-to-one 4 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 07, 2020 / 3:00PM, INCY.OQ - Incyte Corp Data Highlights from ASH 2020 fashion to receive either ruxolitinib 10 milligrams BID or BAT. And at week 24, the primary endpoint was assessed, which was overall response at this point, and there was an extension period and a safety follow-up in these patients. Here, you see already the results of the primary endpoint. The primary endpoint was met. Overall response rate at week 24 was significantly higher in the ruxolitinib group as compared to the BAT group. You see here 49.7% versus 25.6%, a significant improvement in those patients. Also important failure-free survival was longer with ruxolitinib compared to BAT. Another parameter was the modified Lee symptoms score response in these patients, symptoms scores essential to assess disease activity. And here, the response rate was significantly higher in ruxolitinib compared to BAT with 24% versus 11%. We also measured best overall response in those patients, which was the best overall response that those patients achieved in a given time period. And that was also significantly higher in the RUX group compared to the BAT group with 76% versus 60%. And you see here the median duration of best overall response was 6.2 months in the BAT arm, but was not reached in the RUX arm, while BAT was also favorable in the RUX arm. Of course, safety is an important concern in patients that are receiving severe immunosuppression. And here is a comparison of the safe -- the adverse events in the RUX arm compared to the BAT arm. Any grade adverse event was very similar in both group. Grade 3 adverse events, also very similar in both 57% adverse events leading to dose modification were also slightly higher in the adverse event in the RUX group that has, however, also because this group received much longer exposure to ruxolitinib, namely 41 versus 24 weeks. The deaths until data cutoff were not significantly different here. The main side effects here were anemia and thrombocytopenia that were -- and anemia was significantly higher in the RUX group compared to the BAT group. Thrombocytopenia was numerically higher but didn't reach significance. Other complications were not significantly different. So in conclusion, this is the first successful randomized Phase III trial in adolescent and adult patients with chronic graft-versus-host disease and inadequate response to corticosteroids. Ruxolitinib demonstrated significantly higher overall response rate at week 24 compared to BAT, significant improvement in failure free survival, and significantly greater symptom improvement as well as higher best overall response rate. Importantly, the safety profile of RUX was consistent with what was observed previously and what was expected in those patients. Based on those data, RUX is the first agent to demonstrate superior efficacy to BAT in a Phase III trial of patients with chronic graft-versus-host disease that didn't show an adequate response to corticosteroids. And that will -- is likely to change the treatment landscape and finding support the use of RUX as second therapy after an initial steroid treatment. Of course, we also need to discuss future unmet medical needs. Now that we have achieved that, what is the next question? So an important question is, can we combine ruxolitinib and also achieve a response in those patients that have failed ruxolitinib? So we have done that already in Freiburg, and we have 90 ruxolitinib with extra (inaudible) for ECP. And here, we observed in patients that were refractory to either ECP or ruxolitinib that they responded. This is a patient with skin -- chronic skin GVHD that was very resistant. And after the combination Ruxo and ECP, this patient had a complete remission. Also another patient with interferon GVHD showed a complete remission. Here, we have the response rate in those patients that were highly refractory. We, at least, had 10% complete remissions and 65% partial remissions. So with that, I'm at the end of my talk, and I'd be happy to take your questions. Steven H. Stein - Incyte Corporation - Executive VP & Chief Medical Officer Thank you, Professor Zeiser. Operator, now is the time for the first Q&A session. So please give your instructions and open the call for Q&A. 5 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 07, 2020 / 3:00PM, INCY.OQ - Incyte Corp Data Highlights from ASH 2020 QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS Operator (Operator Instructions) Our first question today is coming from Cory Kasimov from JPMorgan. Cory William Kasimov - JPMorgan Chase & Co, Research Division - Senior Biotechnology Analyst I wanted to ask Dr. Zeiser. How are you thinking about RUX in chronic GVHD in comparison to some of the other novel agents that are being investigated? You mentioned some of the targets. You have products like CAP, MET, ROCK2 inhibitor and things like that. How do you think about RUX in that grand landscape? And do you expect physicians to relatively rapidly adopt this for chronic GVHD upon approval? Robert Zeiser Thank you for this important question. So the RUX inhibitor was also tested. It was tested also in a randomized trial. They are randomized into 2 arms, 2 different dosing schedules. But they did not randomize against BAT. So there's -- currently, there's no information if the RUX inhibitor is truly better than what is currently available as a second-line therapy. And the RUX inhibitor trial showed also a high response rate, and -- but they measure just over -- best overall response rate, not at a defined time point. The best overall response rate that they reported was 73% in one dosage arm and 77% in the other dosage arm. So it is very close to what we observed as best overall response here with ruxolitinib. However, it's a different trial design. And it's -- so far, it doesn't allow for a direct comparison. I think the RUX inhibitor is still a very interesting pharmacological approach to interfere with chronic graft-versus-host disease. And it needs further confirmation, I think, in a head-to-head comparison to BAT in order to be implemented in our treatment algorithm. The question is, can we combine it with ruxolitinib at some point? I think both are kinase inhibitors. Both inhibit signaling molecules and immune cells. And so the concern is that there could be also additive toxicity when you combine 2 kinase inhibitors, but that has to be investigated also in future clinical trials. Operator Our next question is coming from Evan Seigerman from Crdit Suisse. Evan David Seigerman - Crdit Suisse AG, Research Division - VP & Senior Equity Research Analyst So when you look at the potential for ruxolitinib in chronic GVHD, how many of your patients would you potentially prescribe? I'm just trying to get a sense as to what the actual opportunity is. And do you see any potential for using this ahead of steroids? I know that's not the trial that we're looking at there. But from a theoretical and kind of biologic point of view, would that make sense at some point? Robert Zeiser Yes. Both are very important questions, so I will start with the first question. The first question is how many of my patients would receive ruxolitinib. And I can say that based on the REACH2 data -- REACH3 data, the majority of my patients would receive ruxolitinib as a second line therapy. There are a few exceptions. If patients are severely thrombocytopenic or if there is a known intolerance to the drug because these are, for example, MPN patients that had previous exposure, and then of course, this does not allow. And to treat with ruxolitinib, but this is clearly a very minor group of maybe 5% to 10% of patients. 6 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 07, 2020 / 3:00PM, INCY.OQ - Incyte Corp Data Highlights from ASH 2020 The other patients with chronic graft-versus-host disease currently should receive ruxolitinib. It is not yet approved in Europe, but I think approval will come based on those data. And so we had a recent survey in Germany and already, the majority of the transplant physicians are treating their patients with ruxolitinib after steroid failure. Your second question is related to whether we could already implement ruxolitinib in earlier treatment line. And even before steroid or together with corticosteroids, and I think so far, we don't know if that is an advantage for the patients because multiple drugs that were combined with corticosteroids have failed to show an improvement compared to steroids alone. But on the other hand, it would be very desirable to reduce the corticosteroids as fast as possible. And this could be potentially achieved when you combine corticosteroids with ruxolitinib. And I've heard from some colleagues that they already start doing that just to have a steroid-sparing agent. But currently, there is no good clinical data supporting such an approach. Operator The next question is coming from with Alethia Young from Cantor Fitzgerald. Alethia Rene Young - Cantor Fitzgerald & Co., Research Division - Director of Equity Research & Head of Healthcare Research Another couple for the professor. I was just curious, when you're looking at RUX and ECP as a combination, you saw some activity in skin, but did you see other activity in organs? And then I actually was just curious as it relates to kind of lines of therapy, like what percentage of people kind of have maybe like might not be eligible for RUX just overall as you think about your whole population? Robert Zeiser Okay. So the first question related to the organ response, if I understood that correctly. When we combine ruxolitinib plus ECP, we saw that all different organs responded very similar. There was not a particular organ that would respond much better than the other organs or much worse than the other organs. So it was very -- the response rate in the different organs are very similar. And then you were asking how many patients would be ineligible for ruxolitinib treatment, if I believe -- if I understood that correctly. And this is a small group of patients that is ineligible. For example, patients with severe pancytopenia or thrombocytopenia, those patients, it's difficult. Still, some of those patients, you can transfuse or you can taper other medications that causes pancytopenia. And so I would say the range is maybe 5%, at most, 10% who are primarily ineligible to ruxolitinib. Operator So next question is coming from Brian Abrahams from RBC Capital Markets. Brian Corey Abrahams - RBC Capital Markets, Research Division - Senior Biotechnology Analyst For Dr. Zeiser, it looks like in this study, the deaths were not significantly different between the 2 arms, despite the clear effect that you saw on response from some of the other parameters with ruxolitinib. So I'm just curious if this is just maybe a byproduct of the longer duration that patients are on RUX because of the crossover. Or anything to think about with respect to potential influence of AEs there? And would you expect that over time, you'd start to see some pull-through to overall survival benefits in this population? 7 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 07, 2020 / 3:00PM, INCY.OQ - Incyte Corp Data Highlights from ASH 2020 Robert Zeiser That is also an important question. There was no difference in overall survival or death rate. But this study was not powered at this time point of analysis to detect a difference in survival. And also in chronic graft-versus-host disease, death is not the major outcome parameter. It's more of the symptom score, basically that tells you something about the quality of life of these patients. The majority of these patients survive. You have survival rates of between 85% and 90% at 1 or 2 years even. So it is not expected that there will be a big difference in survival, even if you improve the disease significantly. Another point that you already mentioned is a crossover from the BAT to the RUX arm, and that also leads as a confounder basically for the overall survival rate. And therefore, overall survival at this time point was not even measured. It will be reported in a later analysis. And it can be that on the long term, maybe with a follow-up of 2 or 3 years that there will be a difference, but not at this early time point. Operator Our next question today is coming from Tazeen Ahmad from Bank of America. Tazeen Ahmad - BofA Merrill Lynch, Research Division - VP Just a couple for me. Doctor, I wanted to get your thoughts on how you thought the Ibrutinib patients did in the BAT arm. And then secondly, I wanted to get your thoughts in a real-world setting, what kind of duration on therapy would you expect these GVHD patients to have on drug? Robert Zeiser Okay. So I start with the second question, the duration of therapy in those patients. So the duration of therapy in these patients is quite long. As you've seen, we measured our response at week 24. So this shows you that the biology of this disease is slow, time-wise. That's why it's called chronic GVHD. So after such a long period of time, 24 weeks, you assess if they have responded or not. And then all those patients that have achieved a partial response will probably continue with ruxolitinib, maybe not at the full dose, but at some kind of dose. And I have patients who have received a therapy now for 3 years, for example, 3 and 4 years, and they have no problems with hematopoiesis. But they have a clear benefit. And always, when we try to taper, the chronic GVHD symptoms seem to come back. So it's a long-term therapy. At this point, we are not able to say exactly how long the patients need to be treated. But it is clear that they need to be treated much longer as compared to acute graft-versus-host disease where you can taper, if the patient has responded after 1 or 2 months. Could you repeat the first question for me? Michael Booth - Incyte Corporation - Divisional VP of IR & Corporate Social Responsibility So it was how did patients who are post -- who are the BTK in the BAT group. Robert Zeiser Okay. And how many patients received the BTK inhibitor. So 17% received the BTK inhibitor, Ibrutinib in the BAT group. This is relatively low because the majority of the patients were recruited in countries outside of the U.S. and that's -- in these countries, Ibrutinib is not approved. And also the transplant community in Europe, at least, is not very convinced of Ibrutinib. Also there are some anecdotical reports where it has showed activity. Overall, this is -- in most people in the community have to view that this is not the best solution for chronic graft-versus-host disease. 8 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 07, 2020 / 3:00PM, INCY.OQ - Incyte Corp Data Highlights from ASH 2020 Tazeen Ahmad - BofA Merrill Lynch, Research Division - VP Okay. So in your view, I guess, how did those patients do? Robert Zeiser How did they do? So we didn't do a subgroup analysis in -- with these patients. But they were not -- there was -- we have looked at the response rate, and those patients with Ibrutinib were not responding particularly well. They were rather in the -- somewhere in the middle. ECP was the best alternative therapy. Operator (Operator Instructions) And that comes from the line of Tyler Van Buren from Piper Sandler. Tyler Martin Van Buren - Piper Sandler & Co., Research Division - Principal & and Senior Biotech Analyst Of course, the increases in response rates and further increased survival are great to see. I guess maybe wanted to go beyond the data that was presented, the numbers, and hear your comments on quality of life improvements. And in particular, in the symptom improvement, clearly a nice magnitude. But is there any specifics unique symptom alleviation that you're seeing with RUX as opposed to best available therapy or any components of the mLSS that -- or symptoms, in general, that you could call out? Robert Zeiser Yes. So we have not analyzed the -- or compared the different symptoms alleviation set, are measured in the modified Lee symptoms or at least I have not those data available at this point. But our improvement in the modified Lee symptom score, that is double the improvement seen in the BAT arm is clinically highly meaningful with 25% versus 11%. That is for the clinicians at large difference, which allows tapering of corticosteroids and which increases the quality of life of the patients. So far, we have not analyzed the individual or compared individual organs or measures. PRESENTATION Steven H. Stein - Incyte Corporation - Executive VP & Chief Medical Officer So thank you for your questions, and thank you again, Professor Zeiser for your participation and insights. We really appreciate it. Let's move on with the second segment of our event, and I'll begin with a summary of key ruxolitinib data from ASH. Ruxolitinib was first FDA-approved in 2011 based on the COMFORT Phase III trials. And in subsequent updated analyses, we have shown significant and long-term benefits in myelofibrosis patients. The data on Slide 32 are from our real-world evidence team comparing 3 distinct groups of myelofibrosis patients. Those diagnosed before ruxolitinib was approved, the green line in the Kaplan-Meier curve; those diagnosed after ruxolitinib was approved but not exposed to ruxolitinib, the red line; and the blue line of those patients exposed to ruxolitinib after it was approved. There is a clear separation between all 3 curves, and the key comparison is between the red and blue lines, adding further evidence that treatment of myelofibrosis patients with ruxolitinib dramatically alters the outcomes for these patients. The hazard ratio for this comparison is 0.61 with a strong p-value. The results of EXPAND study on Slide 33. The EXPAND study initially aimed to establish the maximum safe starting dose in patients with low baseline platelet counts and evaluated the safety and tolerability of ruxolitinib in this population in 2 strata based on baseline platelet counts. 10 milligrams twice daily was chosen as a maximum safe starting dose, and no new safety findings were found. Importantly, and as is shown in the panels on the 9 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 07, 2020 / 3:00PM, INCY.OQ - Incyte Corp Data Highlights from ASH 2020 right side of the slide, 10 milligrams twice daily also provided clinically meaningful reductions in spleen length and improvement in clinical symptoms in this previously unstudied myelofibrosis patient population. I'll now switch to polycythemia vera and the final results of the RESPONSE-2 trial. You will recall that ruxolitinib was FDA-approved in polycythemia vera based on the results of response, wherein ruxolitinib showed a superior and durable response in controlling hematocrit and improving splenomegaly versus best available therapy. This was in polycythemia vera patients with splenomegaly, who were resistant to or intolerant of hydroxyurea. RESPONSE-2, on the other hand, was in polycythemia vera patients with no palpable splenomegaly. RESPONSE-2 establishes a long-term safety and efficacy of ruxolitinib in patients with hydroxyurea-resistant or hydroxyurea-intolerant polycythemia vera without splenomegaly. These 5-year efficacy results show durable hematocrit control as well as reduced allele burden over time. And both panels on Slide 35 show this effect in both cohorts of patients, those initially randomized to ruxolitinib as well as those initially randomized to best available therapy and then crossed over. The 5-year results of RESPONSE-2 also show a 2x lower rate of phlebotomy in the ruxolitinib-treated group versus the crossover group, further illustrating the need for early intervention in these patients as well as a significant improvement in symptoms in patients treated with ruxolitinib versus those treated with best available therapy. It is also notable that on an exposure-adjusted basis, patients on ruxolitinib had lower rates of thromboembolic events versus best available therapy. This also held true in the ruxolitinib-treated group versus the crossover group or, in other words, early RUX versus delayed RUX, again, illustrating the need for early intervention in these patients. The last slide in my segment also comes from our real-world evidence team. We sought to compare the risk of mortality and overall survival in patients newly diagnosed with high-risk polycythemia vera who experienced a thrombotic event versus those patients who did not experience one. We did this by an analysis of over 50,000 patients in the Medicare database. In this real-world study, approximately 1/3 of patients with newly diagnosed high-risk PV experienced a thrombotic event during follow-up. And these patients had a significantly increased risk of mortality versus those who did not experience a thrombotic event. At both 1-year and 2-year landmarks, the Kaplan-Meier survival curves showed the dramatic effect that having a thrombotic event has on outcomes. Overall survival was significantly reduced in patients who experienced a thrombotic event compared to those who did not. These results further reinforce the need for therapeutic intervention in certain patients with polycythemia vera, where thrombotic risk mitigation is an important management goal in patients with p vera, for example, by treatment with RUX and, in particular, those with a prior thrombotic event. I will now pass to Peter to describe the parsaclisib and tafasitamab highlights before we open for the second Q&A session. Peter, over to you. Peter Langmuir - Incyte Corporation - VP of Oncology Drug Development Thank you very much. So I will take you through some of the data for our lymphoma agents, parsaclisib and tafasitamab that are being presented at ASH. If we go to the next slide, please. So starting with parsaclisib. This is our PI3-kinase delta inhibitor. It's a highly potent and selective inhibitor of the delta isoform of PI3 kinase and more potent and more selective compared to all of the other PI3-kinase inhibitors that are currently either approved or in development. So on the next slide summarizes the 3 monotherapy development programs that are being presented at ASH this year. The CITADEL-203 study is in patients with relapsed/refractory follicular lymphoma, the CITADEL-204 in patients with relapsed/refractory marginal zone lymphoma, and then the CITADEL-205 study in relapsed/refractory mantle cell lymphoma. And we presented 2 sets of data here. One from patients who are BTK-naive and then a cohort of patients who had previously received BTK inhibitors. We know that this group is particularly hard to treat and so we included a cohort of these patients and those data were presented as well. One note on the dosing regimen that we used. We know that a class effect of PI3-kinase delta inhibitors is the occurrence of immune-related adverse events that occur about 6 to 9 months after being on treatment. And early on in the development program, we identified that this is obviously a problem if you -- particularly if you have a patient who's able to walk but cannot continue on the drug because of this toxicity. And so 10 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 07, 2020 / 3:00PM, INCY.OQ - Incyte Corp Data Highlights from ASH 2020 we took some time in the Phase I to explore some different dosing regimens and continue that in Phase II, looking at initiating with a fairly potent dose of 20 milligrams daily for 8 weeks and then switching either to 20 milligrams weekly or switching to a lower 2.5 milligram dose daily. And so during these studies, we decided to move forward with the continuous daily dosing, so starting high and dropping to a lower dose, as the preferred regimen. And so it's worth just keeping that in mind as we look in the data because patients -- we have more patients on the daily dosing. They were not recruited synchronously in all cases. And furthermore, patients who are on the weekly dosing relapsed switched to continuous daily dosing. So next slide. When we look at the adverse events overall, and I urge you to look at the data for this specific study because, again, each of these studies, patients were on treatment for longer and had different -- came with different backgrounds. But in general, the safety profile was acceptable. It was generally very well tolerated. When we look at patients with any serious treatment-emergent adverse events, the numbers are fairly similar across the 3 studies, including both the BTK naive and the post-BTK cohorts of the mantle cell lymphoma study. In terms of the adverse event of special interest, we do see diarrhea and colitis. Diarrhea is around 10% rate for serious adverse events and colitis less than 10%. Again, this is expected for agents of this class. But otherwise, we don't see as much of some of the other immune-related adverse events that have been seen with other agents. Generally, these diarrhea, colitis events occur about 6 months after patients have been on treatment. And it will get better, in most cases, fairly quickly within 1 to 4 weeks after holding the drug. In terms of dose modifications, a number of patients did require dose interruptions, but most of those were able to resume treatment. About 5% to 15% had dose reductions. And between 5% and 30% across the different studies ended up having to discontinue because of an adverse event. For the next few slides, I'll take you through the waterfall plot for the RESPONSE data for each study. So first of all, the follicular lymphoma study. So the chart shows all of the patients, so both the weekly -- the patients who switched to weekly dosing in the green and the patients who switched to a low dose daily dosing in the blue. The overall response rate in the patients who switched to the daily dosing, again, this is the preferred regimen, was 75% and the median duration of response in that group was 14.7 months with a median progression-free survival of 15.8 months. So that response rate is extremely encouraging in this relapsed/refractory patient population. If we go to the next slide, these are the patients with marginal zone lymphoma. The overall response rate in the daily dosing group was 57%. Again, a very encouraging number here. The median duration of response was 12 months and median progression-free survival was 19 months in all of the patients. But in the daily dosing group, we have not yet reached that median duration of response, nor have we reached the median progression-free survival. So again, encouraging data. And I should just add here that all of these responses were done by an independent review committee and not based on the investigator read. The next slide is for the mantle cell lymphoma, and this one is the patients who had previously received Ibrutinib. Again, this is a very hard to treat group. These patients tend to progress very rapidly after progressing on Ibrutinib. The overall response rate was encouraging. We saw 29% of patients with a response in the daily dosing group. The median duration of response was 3.7 months. Median progression-free survival, also 3.7 in both -- in the overall population as well as the daily dosing group. So it's encouraging that we see tumor -- reductions in tumor size in most of the patients. But again, as expected, these patients tend not to do very well, in general, after progressing on Ibrutinib. However, on the next slide, we see the BTK naive patients. And here, we see a 71% overall response rate in the daily dosing group. And in that group, the median duration of response was 9 months and median progression-free survival was 11 months. So again, a very encouraging result in this patient -- relapsed/refractory patient population. And so the next slide summarizes the compelling efficacy data that we see across these 3 studies. Again, and if we focus on the daily dosing group, which is the regimen we're moving forward with, overall response rates of 75% in follicular, 57% in marginal zone and 71% in mantle cell lymphoma with good durable duration of response and median progression-free survival. That looks probably in a single-arm trial, very encouraging compared to currently available treatments. 11 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 07, 2020 / 3:00PM, INCY.OQ - Incyte Corp Data Highlights from ASH 2020 And so the next slide, these data were shared here. The follow-up is ongoing. One thing we want to be very sure of, and we know FDA is going to want to look at this, is to have adequate follow-up to be able to demonstrate that these responses are durable. And at this point, we were very encouraged by the data, and we expect to have an NDA in the second half of next year. And this is obviously a significant opportunity. There are a lot of patients with relapsed/refractory non-Hodgkin's lymphoma. And we think these data are very encouraging and hopefully provide a meaningful treatment option for these patients. On the next slide summarizes our development strategy. I talked about the monotherapy data. The other interesting trial that we have ongoing with monotherapy parsaclisib is a study in autoimmune hemolytic anemia. That's a proof-of-concept trial that's currently ongoing. But for non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, we know that the mainstay of treatment for these patients is generally combination therapy. And so we're looking at combinations, particularly with tafasitamab, and I'll talk about that in a moment, in relapsed/refractory B cell malignancy. But also we have an interesting program ongoing with -- in myelofibrosis, where we're combining parsaclisib with ruxolitinib. And we have 2 studies underway right now within our LIMBER program, and this is our myelofibrosis program. One of these is in the frontline treatment of patients with myelofibrosis, and the other is in patients who are inadequate responders to ruxolitinib. So these are patients who are on ruxolitinib. They're having some benefit from it. You don't want to stop the drug, but they still have some residual spleen or symptoms. And what we're trying to do here is add parsaclisib onto ruxolitinib in those patients to see if we can improve the outcomes there. So as I said, we have 2 Phase III programs that are currently open to enrollment in that setting. Next slide, I'm going to move on and talk about tafasitamab. So this is the monoclonal antibody against CD19 that we have a partnership with MorphoSys for joint clinical development and commercialization. And really, I'm going to focus initially on the opportunity for combining this drug with rpS3 kinase delta inhibitor parsaclisib. As you can see from the chart, the figure on the left, the CD19 is a self-surface protein found on B cells, particularly malignant B cells. And the PI3-kinase delta isoform is an important part of the downstream signaling pathway from there. And so there's a clear scientific rationale for combining these 2 mechanisms of action and potentially improving the anti-lymphoma activity. Now you may have seen some data from the COSMOS trial. I believe this was presented last year at ASH, looking at combination of tafasitamab with idelalisib, the original PI3 kinase delta inhibitor. That was in patients with relapsed/refractory CLL and showed very encouraging efficacy and safety. And so based on the efficacy and safety profile we see with parsaclisib in non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, we're very eager to start a combination of parsaclisib with tafasitamab, and that trial is going to start in 2021. And looking at patients with relapsed/refractory B-cell malignancies, including both non-Hodgkin's lymphoma as well as CLL in patients who've received at least one prior anti-CD20 therapy. And so we think this is going to be a very interesting trial to watch over the next couple of years. Next, I'd just like to talk briefly about some of the tafasitamab data that are being presented at ASH this year. First of all is an updated subgroup analysis from the L-MIND study with at least 2 years of follow-up. As you know, the L-MIND study was the study of tafasitamab with lenalidomide in the treatment of patients with relapsed/refractory DLBCL. This is a study that led to the approval of tafasitamab in the U.S. And what we're seeing in this presentation at ASH this year with this prolonged follow-up, is basically continued encouraging data for tafasitamab in combination with lenalidomide in this setting, and particularly of interest are the patients who have complete responses and the continued long duration of response and high overall survival in these patients. And that's highlighted on the slide here. If you look at the bottom, the proportion of patients who are still in response at 24 months of the CR patients is 86.4%, and 90.6% of patients who are in CR are still alive at the 2-year time point. So this is -- continues to be extremely encouraging data that in this combination of tafasitamab and lenalidomide in relapsed/refractory DLBCL, that the very encouraging CR rate is translating into very encouraging long-term outcomes. So next, I'll talk about the frontline DLBCL study. And this is the first-line study, which was a Phase I combination study looking at the combination of tafasitamab with or without lenalidomide on top of R-CHOP in the frontline treatment of patients with DLBCL. So 2 cohorts here. Arm A was just tafasitamab plus R-CHOP, and arm B was tafasitamab and lenalidomide with R-CHOP. Initial safety run-in phase and then the expansion phase following from that. And so we're presenting some data from this study, primarily safety data at ASH this year, and these are shown up on the next slide. 12 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 07, 2020 / 3:00PM, INCY.OQ - Incyte Corp Data Highlights from ASH 2020 So on the left is the tafasitamab combination and on the right, is the tafasitamab, lenalidomide combination. As expected when you add lenalidomide in there, you do see more adverse events in the blood and lymphatic system disorders. So these are generally cytopenias. But overall, the safety profile was very encouraging. There were no new safety signals that were observed with either combination in this setting. And so as expected, it's -- there are more cytopenias when you add lenalidomide in there, but overall, it seemed to be well tolerated even despite that increase in some of the cytopenias. So if we go to the next slide, summarizes the key global clinical development studies that are ongoing or planned for tafasitamab. So in the relapsed/refractory DLBCL setting, we know about the L-MIND study. We're just continuing to follow up those patients, as I mentioned, the study that led to the approval by the FDA. We also have ongoing the B-MIND study. This is a combination of tafasitamab with bendamustine compared to the combination of rituximab with bendamustine. This study is ongoing. We expect an update in 2022. The primary endpoint will be progression-free survival. We did have a futility analysis back a year ago, and that passed successfully. In the frontline DLBCL setting, I talked about the first-line study that was presented at ASH this year. Those data will lead to the Front-MIND study, a large study comparing tafasitamab and lenalidomide on top of R-CHOP compared to R-CHOP alone, and this trial is expected to start in 2021. Primary endpoint for that study will be progression-free survival. Obviously, we're very interested in looking at tafasitamab in other relapsed/refractory non-Hodgkin's lymphoma setting. We have the inMIND study. This is a Phase III study in follicular lymphoma, looking at the combination of tafasitamab plus lenalidomide plus rituximab. So tafasitamab plus R-squared compared to R-squared alone. This study will have a primary endpoint of progression-free survival and is expected to start in 2021. I already mentioned the combination of tafasitamab with parsaclisib that will be in relapsed/refractory non-Hodgkin's lymphoma as well as CLL. That study is also expected to start in 2021. And then recently, we and MorphoSys announced a collaboration with Xencor to look at the combination of tafasitamab and lenalidomide with Xencor by specific antibody plamotamab, and that trial is also expected to start in 2021. So I'll hand it back to Steven for the final conclusions. Steven H. Stein - Incyte Corporation - Executive VP & Chief Medical Officer Thank you, Peter. Slide 55 summarizes the key takeaways from ASH from an Incyte perspective. We've shared data from the first-ever successful randomized Phase III trial in chronic graft-versus-host disease and are preparing the sNDA for submission in the next several weeks. We've shown additional evidence that ruxolitinib has transformed outcomes for thousands of myeloproliferative neoplasm patients. And new data at ASH give us additional important information to share with physicians on the importance of timely intervention in both myelofibrosis and p vera. We have presented compelling data from parsaclisib in several non-Hodgkin's lymphomas, and we're looking forward to both submitting the monotherapy NDA and to exploring combination strategies for parsaclisib. We also believe that data at ASH further reinforce tafasitamab's attractive profile as a backbone therapy. And with our colleagues at MorphoSys, we look forward to launching the Phase III trial in first-line diffuse large B-cell lymphoma next year. Operator, now is the time for the second Q&A session. So please give your instructions and open the call for Q&A. QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS Operator (Operator Instructions) Our first question is coming from Marc Frahm from Cowen and Company. 13 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 07, 2020 / 3:00PM, INCY.OQ - Incyte Corp Data Highlights from ASH 2020 Marc Alan Frahm - Cowen and Company, LLC, Research Division - Director Maybe just on the plans for frontline -- the first-line DLBCL pivotal trial. I guess are you going to enroll a broad population, just kind of all comers, whoever enrolls? Or is there an enrichment strategy for the high-risk patients? And if so, is the primary endpoint going to be for all comers? Or will you start the hierarchical analysis in that high-risk population? Steven H. Stein - Incyte Corporation - Executive VP & Chief Medical Officer Peter, do you want to address the population we'll be addressing? Thanks. Peter Langmuir - Incyte Corporation - VP of Oncology Drug Development Yes. So the population will be a higher risk population overall, and the primary endpoint of progression-free survival would be in the overall population that we're enrolling there. We haven't completely finalized a design at this point. Steven H. Stein - Incyte Corporation - Executive VP & Chief Medical Officer Marc, just to give you a little bit of further color. It's Steven. So we'll use the traditional International Prognostic Index to risk stratify. The intent, as Peter said, is to look potentially at IPI 3 through 5 initially. But the ultimate details will come once we close out all the regulatory feedback. Marc Alan Frahm - Cowen and Company, LLC, Research Division - Director Okay. Great. And if you bear with me for -- going back to part one. Steven, with the survival data, I recognize it's very immature today, but it is slightly higher death in the ruxolitinib. Can you file with the existing data set? Or does the FDA need to see maybe a little bit more follow-up to see that even itself out? Steven H. Stein - Incyte Corporation - Executive VP & Chief Medical Officer No. It's Steven again. So thanks for the question. I think as Professor Zeiser said, the intent is -- it was not to demonstrate overall survival. It wasn't powered that way. He also alluded to the fact that the exposure was almost double on ruxolitinib versus best available therapy, and we haven't done an exposure-adjusted analysis. The other thing I'll say is the majority of the deaths are due to graft -- underlying graft-versus-host disease. So the quick answer to your question is there should be absolutely no concern in terms of filing this data from an FDA perspective. It's well on track. Operator Next question today is coming from Salveen Richter from Goldman Sachs. Salveen Jaswal Richter - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - VP On parsaclisib, could you just talk about the safety profile today and how you're thinking about the approach here in combinatorial, including the Jakafi the LIMBER portfolio? Steven H. Stein - Incyte Corporation - Executive VP & Chief Medical Officer Peter, do you want to go ahead? So parsaclisib safety profile in non-Hodgkin's lymphoma in general. And then the second part is that how does it speak to the combination with the RUX and the LIMBER program as well. 14 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 07, 2020 / 3:00PM, INCY.OQ - Incyte Corp Data Highlights from ASH 2020 Peter Langmuir - Incyte Corporation - VP of Oncology Drug Development Yes. I think in the non-Hodgkin's lymphoma setting, the safety profile was encouraging and generally in line. The types of adverse events were generally in line with what's been seen with other agents, so generally somewhat more favorable. We still see the diarrhea and the colitis, which is expected, but we don't see very many of the other immune types of adverse events that are commonly seen with other agents in the setting. And in terms of other toxicity, we see some neutropenia, but it's generally low grade. And overall, it seems quite tolerable. And I think that's sort of shown by the fact that in the patients as we've gone to this adjusted dosing regimen, the patients who respond are able to maintain a response over a prolonged period of dosing. Interestingly, and we've shown some of the data for the myelofibrosis combination, I believe EHA was the last time we presented these data, we see less of those long-term toxicities there and we don't fully understand why that is. It may just be that lymphoma patients come in with a different sort of immune background to a patient of myelofibrosis that may be related to the prior treatments that patients have received. But in the myelofibrosis combination with ruxolitinib, it tends to be pretty well tolerated. We don't see any particular exacerbation of the cytopenias that you can see with ruxolitinib. And so again, it seems -- the combination seems amenable to long-term dosing. I think the question that's still out there a bit will be how can we combine this drug with other agents in lymphoma because, again, that's the paradigm that we see here. And we have some initial combination studies that are ongoing that so far, the data look encouraging there. I think that we know that idelalisib had some toxicity issues with their combination studies, and we can learn from those. So for example, patients receive prophylaxis for Pneumocystis pneumonia on all of parsaclisib lymphoma studies. And we -- investigators know now to keep a close attention for febrile neutropenia and other infections. And so we're very alert to those concerns. But at this stage, we don't see any particular concerns about moving ahead with combination therapies in either the lymphoma or the myelofibrosis settings. Operator Our next question today is coming from George Farmer from BMO Capital Markets. George Farmer - BMO Capital Markets Equity Research - Analyst I'd like to go back to part 1, if that's okay. Steve, I noticed in the REACH2 trial, the acute GVHD study that you did, there was a proportion of patients that transform to chronic GVHD. I was wondering if you have any insight into that [matter] as what might be going on? Robert Zeiser So I'll take this question. Steven H. Stein - Incyte Corporation - Executive VP & Chief Medical Officer Thanks, Professor Zeiser, go ahead. Robert Zeiser Yes. So transformation from acute to chronic graft-versus-host disease occurs in around 10% to 15% of the patients, and it's called overlap syndrome. This overlap syndrome, having features from acute and chronic graft-versus-host disease is rare and it's very hard to treat because it's very refractory to many treatment options. So in the REACH3 trial, we did not have such patients that had been exposed to ruxolitinib before and then, at some point, developed this overlap syndrome. 15 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 07, 2020 / 3:00PM, INCY.OQ - Incyte Corp Data Highlights from ASH 2020 And in the REACH2 trial, there was a very small proportion of patients that was in the RUX group and that developed then a chronic graft-versus-host disease. But we had some of those patients, and none of them had severe chronic graft-versus-host disease. All had moderate or mild chronic graft-versus-host disease. Having mild chronic graft-versus-host disease is even an advantage in terms of protection from relapse because that is an indicator for alloreactivity, and alloreactivity protect those patients from relapse of the underlying hematological malignancy. Operator Our next question today is coming from Ren Benjamin from JMP Securities. Reni John Benjamin - JMP Securities LLC, Research Division - MD & Equity Research Analyst Can you talk a little bit more about the registrational path for CITADEL? I think Peter mentioned an NDA in the second half of '21. Is it just longer follow-up of the existing patients that are on the study? Or are the trials going to continue enrolling? Just to give us a more complete picture of what indications are also going to be filed as well. Steven H. Stein - Incyte Corporation - Executive VP & Chief Medical Officer Reni, it's Steven. I'll answer your question. So the studies have completed. You've seen the complete data sets here with the efficacy and safety profile Peter presented to you. It's pretty standard from an FDA regulatory point of view to require roughly 12 months of follow-up on your last patient enrolled, particularly for responders. They're interested in, as Peter alluded to, duration of response. So we're in that phase now, and we'll get that complete follow-up in the early part of '21 and then put together a submission. In terms of the actual regulatory strategy, will follicular, for example, be combined with marginal low-grade lymphoma type indication? That's something is still to be determined. Mantle cell will be distinct on its own. But it's -- we're just in a standard phase. It's not ongoing enrollment or anything like that. It's just gathering the required long-term follow-up to complete the registration packages. Reni John Benjamin - JMP Securities LLC, Research Division - MD & Equity Research Analyst Right. And then, Steven, just as a follow-up with the LIMBER program. Can you talk a little bit in the frontline setting, have you noticed any disease-modifying attributes to the combination with the PI3K-delta inhibitor? Or is it still primarily completely symptomatic? Steven H. Stein - Incyte Corporation - Executive VP & Chief Medical Officer Yes. I'll turn it over to Peter to answer you. And I assume you're alluding to both potentially fibrotic changes as well as allele burden changes. Peter, can you just go through what's been presented to date? Peter Langmuir - Incyte Corporation - VP of Oncology Drug Development Yes. I mean we -- primarily, what we presented is changes in the spleen and symptoms. There was some preliminary data looking at improvement in fibrosis. But I think it's probably too early to say for that and similarly for allele burden. So the decision to move ahead with the Phase III studies was really based on the improvement in spleen and symptoms and the durability of those when you add the parsaclisib. And I think we'll really have to take the randomized studies to see what the real impact of the -- some of these other improvements in overall disease, burden like fibrosis and allele burden, what those look like. 16 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 07, 2020 / 3:00PM, INCY.OQ - Incyte Corp Data Highlights from ASH 2020 Operator Our next question today is coming from Mara Goldstein from Mizuho. Mara Goldstein - Mizuho Securities USA LLC, Research Division - MD of Equity Research Department ASH this year is clearly a little bit different being in a virtual format. I'm just wondering, given that we're now into the tafasitamab launch, just some feedback that you're getting on the real-world use experience with the drug and as you're approaching more data sets as well. Herv Hoppenot - Incyte Corporation - Chairman, President & CEO On the launch of Monjuvi. No, we spoke about it recently. It's doing well. It's progressing. It's a population that is very unique in the sense that we have the only approved second-line treatment in DLBCL. And so the experience we get and all the feedback we get is really the importance of the safety profile that is very good in combination with lenalidomide compared to what the alternative would be, which would be chemotherapy plus with ruxolitinib. In many cases, it's what physicians were using in the past or are still using in some cases. So there is a very good safety profile. And more importantly, there is a high level of complete response with a very long duration of complete response. So this mix of complete response rate, duration of response and safety profile is resonating very well. So we are making good progress, and we are happy with what we are seeing there. Mara Goldstein - Mizuho Securities USA LLC, Research Division - MD of Equity Research Department Okay. And if I could just -- I apologize, ask for a clarification on the CITADEL program, just around the adverse event profile. I just wanted to confirm that the elevation that you're seeing in immuno transferase values were laboratory. Or were there other interventions required for those grade 4s? Steven H. Stein - Incyte Corporation - Executive VP & Chief Medical Officer Peter, do you want to talk to that? Peter Langmuir - Incyte Corporation - VP of Oncology Drug Development That's right. That means we see some elevations in transaminases. It tends to be much less than what's been seen with some of the other agents here. And we haven't seen any significant complications from most of those. But I don't know if that answers your question. Operator Next question is coming from Matt Phipps from William Blair. Matthew Christopher Phipps - William Blair & Company L.L.C., Research Division - Senior Biotechnology Research Analyst I know this is an interim look from the firstMIND, and it's a small number of patients and only 3 cycles, but a 91% response rate is pretty much exactly in line with both arms and the robust trial showed. And so do you have any sense on CRs at this point? And again, is the hypothesis to really drive deeper responses and more CRs with this new combination? And I know ritux didn't work as maintenance here, but have you ever considered trying tafasitamab as maintenance? 17 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 07, 2020 / 3:00PM, INCY.OQ - Incyte Corp Data Highlights from ASH 2020 Steven H. Stein - Incyte Corporation - Executive VP & Chief Medical Officer Yes, it's Steven. So just a reminder, to step back, the intent of firstMIND was obviously safety to look at both tafa on its own with R-CHOP and then tafa with R-CHOP, and to work out if there was going to be a sort of safety deal breaker in terms of going forward. And as you can see from the data, aside from, as Peter said, a little more cytopenia with the addition of lenalidomide that was expected, there was nothing concerning there. So obviously, it then goes to talking about beating R-CHOP to use the most active regimen. The efficacy part of this was, quite frankly, a pleasant surprise, and I'm glad we have that efficacy data to the degree seen with the 91% overall. We don't have further granular data for you to present yet. In terms of maintenance, just from the indication itself, obviously, the use of tafa goes on for a while. But down the pocket would be something we'd be more interested in looking at different maintenance regimens in different lymphoma settings, but we can't give you granular details on plans yet. Operator Our next question is coming from Michael Schmidt from Guggenheim. Michael Werner Schmidt - Guggenheim Securities, LLC, Research Division - Senior Analyst & Senior MD I had another one on parsaclisib. I guess the commercial market for the PI3-kinase delta inhibitor class has been disappointing, obviously, for various reasons, including safety. And I guess with the clinical profile for parsaclisib as it has emerged in non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, I guess, where do you think the best opportunity is to compete maybe with other classes of drugs? Is it maybe in follicular lymphoma in marginal cell? And how do you think parsaclisib may be positioned relative to other treatment modalities in those indications? Steven H. Stein - Incyte Corporation - Executive VP & Chief Medical Officer So Michael, it's Steven. I'll try go first, and Peter may want to add. I think what you're alluding to indirectly is if there's a crowded field in terms of different mechanism of actions being studied here, whether it's targeting CD19, CD20, BTK inhibitors, PI3-kinase delta, et cetera. We spent a lot of time working out the best therapeutic ratio here. We knew parsaclisib on its own was extremely active, and we see almost all the responses occur by the first imaging event. And then you see the independently confirmed response rates reported here in follicular marginal and the mantle cell that's BTK naive that are robust and durable with long PFS. If you look at sort of third line follicular, second line marginal, second line mantle, and you look at U.S., Europe and Japan, they all remain #1 still incurable entities. There's about 10,000 third line follicular patients in those markets and about 5,000 each of marginal and mantle. So you're talking with upwards, if you take all 3 indications, of about a 20,000-patient opportunity in a setting where there's no cure. So what I suspect will happen is physicians will rightly, should this be approved, look at the therapeutic ratio for their particular patient and then decide what treatments they want to use in that particular setting. Again to be repetitive, there's really high activity for this agent that we see early. And then the switch to daily dosing at a lower level at week 8 onwards, we think we've got the best in terms of maintaining the response as well as giving you a terrible profile. And that's how I sort of see it play out. Peter, I don't know if you want to add anything. Peter Langmuir - Incyte Corporation - VP of Oncology Drug Development Yes. I mean maybe just to add. I mean, I think the delta class sort of has suffered from some negative data in the past. And I think that maybe has hurt parsaclisib a little bit. But I think if you look at the -- if you ignore the fact that it's a delta inhibitor, let's just look at the efficacy and the safety 18 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 07, 2020 / 3:00PM, INCY.OQ - Incyte Corp Data Highlights from ASH 2020 that we see in the 3 monotherapy studies that are presented here, I think the data are extremely encouraging, and I think this is going to be hopefully a good treatment option for patients. I think where we go next, obviously, we want to get into the combinations, either with standard of care. And clearly, I think that, that's an opportunity for parsaclisib, if we can do that safely. And I think the tafasitamab combination is one that may be extremely interesting because that's a drug that we know has great activity in the relapsed/refractory non-Hodgkin's lymphoma. So I think it seems to be very well tolerated. And the combination of 2 -- those 2 mechanisms may be a great path forward. So I think that, again, as Steven said, there's a lot here. There are a lot of treatment options. There are a lot of different mechanisms being explored. But I think if we look at the efficacy data that we're presenting here at ASH, I think this is a very encouraging drug for patients that we hope to have available. Operator Our next question is coming from Jay Olson from Oppenheimer. Jay Olson - Oppenheimer & Co. Inc., Research Division - Executive Director & Senior Analyst Congrats on the data. Maybe just a follow-up on parsaclisib. I noticed in your CITADEL program, there was a significant difference between response rates that were essentially reviewed compared to the locally assessed response rates as measured by MRI. Could you comment on what some of the factors are that would account for those differences? Steven H. Stein - Incyte Corporation - Executive VP & Chief Medical Officer Peter, do you just want to talk about independent review versus investigator and what drives differences? Peter Langmuir - Incyte Corporation - VP of Oncology Drug Development Yes. I mean there are a number of things, and particularly in non-Hodgkin's lymphoma can be complicated because, obviously, these are tumors and lymph nodes and sometimes the radial just has a hard time to terminate that lymph node, abnormal or not. So I think there are a number of factors that were involved, whether it was -- which reasons that identified a baseline that they were going to follow, whether they consider that lesions -- certain lesions changed over time as many of the same things that we see in terms of -- in solid tumors as well in terms of independent versus investigator reading. I don't believe any of the investigators had any bias, but certainly doing an independent review takes out that physician judgment part of it and looks purely at the scans. So I think that there were obviously differences between the investigator and the independent review. But directionally, the conclusions were the same. So we're still seeing very high response rate. We're still seeing prolonged duration of response. We're still seeing encouraging progression-free survival. So while individual patients may have some differences in how the site radiologist versus the independent radiologists interpreted the span, that again, directionally, everything seems to be consistent. Operator Our next question is coming from Stephen Willey from Stifel. 19 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 07, 2020 / 3:00PM, INCY.OQ - Incyte Corp Data Highlights from ASH 2020 Stephen Douglas Willey - Stifel, Nicolaus & Company, Incorporated, Research Division - Director Just a quick one on parsaclisib. So do you have any pharmacodynamic markers that essentially serve as a surrogate of on-target activity? Is something like Tregs here appropriate? And I guess, just curious if you looked at this at all in CITADEL, and then if you looked at this at all in MF, to kind of get a better understanding of what that lower MF dose is buying you in terms of delta contribution. Peter Langmuir - Incyte Corporation - VP of Oncology Drug Development It's a great question. And we've looked but we haven't identified anything -- any clear pharmacodynamic marker, either in lymphoma setting or in the MF setting that would identify which patients should or should not get parsaclisib, how to predict who's going to have a durable response or not. We've -- as I said, we've looked at this in both the CITADEL and somewhat in the MS studies as well. I think those data would be extremely important, given the number of agents that are available in non-Hodgkin's lymphoma and also the number of things that are being studied in MF now in the combination of ruxolitinib. But at this point, we don't have any clear data to be able to select patients either way for that. Stephen Douglas Willey - Stifel, Nicolaus & Company, Incorporated, Research Division - Director And then just as a reminder, is the parsaclisib dose in MF being used, is that 2.5 mg daily? Peter Langmuir - Incyte Corporation - VP of Oncology Drug Development 5 mg in MF. Stephen Douglas Willey - Stifel, Nicolaus & Company, Incorporated, Research Division - Director It's 5. Okay. Operator Our next question is coming from Tazeen Ahmad from Bank of America. Tazeen Ahmad - BofA Merrill Lynch, Research Division - VP Appreciate all the color so far. I have one question on parsaclisib in marginal zone lymphoma. As I understand it, you were only able to include these BTK-naive patients. Can you talk about, if we should expect to see data from Ibrutinib-failed patients? And then could you give us your opinion on durability of response? I know it's early data, but just wanted to get a sense of that. Peter Langmuir - Incyte Corporation - VP of Oncology Drug Development So at the question about durability, is that sort of BTK -- for the post-BTK patients or in general? Tazeen Ahmad - BofA Merrill Lynch, Research Division - VP In general. 20 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 07, 2020 / 3:00PM, INCY.OQ - Incyte Corp Data Highlights from ASH 2020 Peter Langmuir - Incyte Corporation - VP of Oncology Drug Development In general. So for marginal zone, so we actually had a cohort of post-BTK patients, but it basically, were not very many patients and it didn't enroll very well. At some point, we'll present the data there, but they were -- there were not very many patients. So it wasn't a very large data set. In general, across the CITADEL studies, we see an encouraging duration of response in each of the groups and certainly in marginal zone. In particular, I think the duration is encouraging in the patients who have response. So... Tazeen Ahmad - BofA Merrill Lynch, Research Division - VP How big of a population is this? And do you have any color on why you weren't able to get enough Ibrutinib failures for this portion? Peter Langmuir - Incyte Corporation - VP of Oncology Drug Development No. So it's just -- I mean, the marginal zone is about -- excuse me, 5,000 new patients per year so it's not terribly common. And I don't know whether there was an issue that just Ibrutinib was not being widely used, either in general or percentage we were going to. It may also be that, again, we know that these patients progress very quickly after -- when they've received Ibrutinib. Once they progress on Ibrutinib, they do tend to progress very quickly. And so it's possible -- we know in some cases, that there were patients who were not able to enroll in the trial just because their disease was advancing so rapidly. So I don't know if that was part of it as well. Tazeen Ahmad - BofA Merrill Lynch, Research Division - VP Okay. And then maybe one question in MCL. As far as durability of response in the prepared statements, I think you mentioned that durability was about 9 months. How does that compare to Ibrutinib patients? Peter Langmuir - Incyte Corporation - VP of Oncology Drug Development Oh, gosh. I would need to take that up. I don't have the Ibrutinib data right in front of me. Are you talking about patients who receive Ibrutinib or the patients who got parsaclisib after Ibrutinib? Tazeen Ahmad - BofA Merrill Lynch, Research Division - VP Actually, both would be great, but we can follow up off-line. That's fine. Peter Langmuir - Incyte Corporation - VP of Oncology Drug Development The patients who got parsaclisib after Ibrutinib, the duration of response was about 3.5 months compared to about 9 months in the patients who are BTK naive. I don't have the Ibrutinib duration like for patients in the same setting who would be treated with Ibrutinib, I don't have the duration of response right on hand. Operator (Operator Instructions) First is coming from Tyler Van Buren from Piper Sandler. 21 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 07, 2020 / 3:00PM, INCY.OQ - Incyte Corp Data Highlights from ASH 2020 Tyler Martin Van Buren - Piper Sandler & Co., Research Division - Principal & and Senior Biotech Analyst As we think about the current and future uptake of tafasitamab in relapsed/refractory DLBCL, can you just discuss the current split for physician use and/or preference of lenalidomide and bendamustine. And even though it is early, if you see that changing in real-time with the Monjuvi launch? It'd be helpful to understand as we think about the importance of the B-MIND data for future utilization. Steven H. Stein - Incyte Corporation - Executive VP & Chief Medical Officer Tyler, it's Steven. I'm not going to be able to answer you with details. I think it's too early in the launch trajectory to have that sort of split. But just to remind you, though, as a segue that as part of the development program, there is a bendamustine-rituximab versus bendamustine-tafasitamab study ongoing called B-MIND that is going to be a very important part of the development program because of the realization that there is renewable use as you're alluding to of bendamustine, Rituxan in this entity. Operator Our final question today is coming from Cory Kasimov from JPMorgan. Cory William Kasimov - JPMorgan Chase & Co, Research Division - Senior Biotechnology Analyst So I had a follow-up question to all this parsaclisib discussion, but from a longer-term perspective. Really just curious how you're thinking about the opportunities for this candidate. In the lymphomas that you presented at ASH, but also more broadly, is another way to say it is, what's the potential for parsaclisib to be a stand-alone driver for Incyte in the future in lymphoma that you see most of the promise with this asset in combination with RUX as part of the LIMBER program? Steven H. Stein - Incyte Corporation - Executive VP & Chief Medical Officer Thank you for the question. And it's interesting how much income in we've got on parsaclisib because we believed, for a long time, that we have an extremely active agent that we've worked out in quite an elegant way, the therapeutic ratio in these different settings. So in non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, we obviously presented mature data sets now in 3 different entities: follicular, marginal and mantle cell in single-arm studies and go on to submit those for potential approvals, which will then require, as Peter was alluding to, confirmatory studies looking at combinations. Additionally, the tafasitamab deal itself was one of the important factors, was the ability to combine with a new generation PI3 delta inhibitor. They had already done work with idelalisib. It showed high activity, albeit in a small number of patients and wanted to use a new generation inhibitor. So that combination will be starting next year and will be very important, we think, in treating non-Hodgkin's lymphomas. In terms of myelofibrosis, both the first-line study, 313, and the suboptimal responder study, 304, are open and will be enrolling next -- over the course of next year and are extremely important to the LIMBER program and we think also biologically to myelofibrosis patients because of PI3-kinase delta up-regulation in myelofibrosis. And then also just to mention, we have a very important program going on in autoimmune hemolytic anemia with parsaclisib, the proof-of-concept studies underway. There's an unmet need there in patients post-CD20 antibodies that get into trouble or no longer respond. And we have some really interesting data there, and that study is really important to us. So it's quite a comprehensive effort across lymphomas as monotherapy in various combinations, it will be confirmatory studies in those settings with tafasitamab, in myelofibrosis, both sub-optimally and first-line with ruxolitinib and then in autoimmune hemolytic anemia as well. 22 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 07, 2020 / 3:00PM, INCY.OQ - Incyte Corp Data Highlights from ASH 2020 Operator We've reached the end of our question-and-answer session. I'd like to turn the floor back over to Mike Booth for any further or closing comments. Michael Booth - Incyte Corporation - Divisional VP of IR & Corporate Social Responsibility So thank you all for participating in the call today and for all of your questions. Of course, Christine and I will be available for the rest of the day for any follow-up request you may have. But for now, we thank you again, and we'll close the call. Thank you, and goodbye. Operator Thank you. That does conclude today's teleconference and webinar. You may disconnect your line at this time, and have a wonderful day. We thank you for your participation today. DISCLAIMER Refinitiv reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes. In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized. THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES REFINITIV OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS. 2020, Refinitiv. All Rights Reserved. 13537497-2020-12-08T13:40:13.263 23 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 07, 2020 / 3:00PM, INCY.OQ - Incyte Corp Data Highlights from ASH 2020
REFINITIV STREETEVENTS EDITED TRANSCRIPT CG.OQ - Carlyle Group Inc at Goldman Sachs Financial Services Conference (Virtual) EVENT DATE/TIME: DECEMBER 09, 2020 / 2:20PM GMT REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS Kewsong Lee The Carlyle Group Inc. - CEO & Director CONFERENCE CALL PARTICIPANTS Alexander Blostein Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - Lead Capital Markets Analyst PRESENTATION Alexander Blostein - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - Lead Capital Markets Analyst Well, good morning, everybody. Next, it is my pleasure to welcome Kewsong Lee, CEO of Carlyle. With $230 billion in asset under management, Carlyle is a leading global alternative asset manager with significant capabilities across private markets. Despite the pandemic, momentum is building across the business, underpinned by continued fundraising, accelerating deployment and strong investment performance. We look forward to getting an update on the drivers for the firm's momentum and key strategic priorities from here. So Kew, welcome. Thank you very much for being here. Kewsong Lee - The Carlyle Group Inc. - CEO & Director I'm pleased to be here, Alex. Thanks for having me. QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS Alexander Blostein - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - Lead Capital Markets Analyst Great. So I wanted to start our conversation this morning with the discussion around both the macro environment and what's been happening with your limited partners, your clients and, first, really with economic outlook. With the rising prospects of the vaccine and obviously now a road to recovery, which is becoming, I guess, a little bit more clearer, there's still lots of economic uncertainty out there. So how are you thinking about the macro outlook into '21? And maybe at a high level, how have these views impacted decision-making at Carlyle? Kewsong Lee - The Carlyle Group Inc. - CEO & Director Sure. Well, look, I would say 3 things. First, it's a very different recovery based on where you are, what industry sector you're in and what asset class you're pushing on. And so the first point is it's very different. So Asia is going to grow this year. China is going to grow this year without a recession, probably 3% growth. The U.S. is obviously a little bit down and Europe down a little bit more. But depending on what industry sector you're in, you can either be seeing 5 years of growth in 1 year or you could be facing existential issues, right? So it's a very different recovery based on what we're seeing around the world. But also, I would say the dispersion of outcomes is greater than we've ever seen before. Real winners, real losers within industry sectors, not to mention across industry sectors. But I think the final point, this is an important one, is you can take a look at all that variance and all that dispersion and say and conclude, well, that's uncertain and like, now what do we do when we should kind of hang out? At Carlyle, because of our global presence, because we're in all regions of the world, because we're in all asset classes, because of all of our product strategies, for us, it's much more about where do we pick our spots, where do we know we can lean in to be aggressive and where should we be appropriately circumspect? So I think this type of environment actually plays to our favor. We have an advantage because of our global platform, our industry expertise. And as a result, we've been leaning in places like Asia, $1.5 billion invested already, places like growth investing in PE, certain industry sectors like health 2 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 09, 2020 / 2:20PM, CG.OQ - Carlyle Group Inc at Goldman Sachs Financial Services Conference (Virtual) care and technology, clearly also playing uncertainty and volatility in credit vis--vis credit opportunistic strategy. So it's a very different recovery based on your -- where you sit. It's -- there's a lot of dispersion. And I think our platform is set up really well to take advantage of the current environment. Alexander Blostein - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - Lead Capital Markets Analyst Right. Right. And we've lit the same question on your clients. And if you think about the challenges they are faced with and, frankly, really volatile backdrop still, markets that are nearly an all-time high, so obviously, very low global interest rates and lots of dry powder that they've already committed to investing. So sort of what's top of mind for your clients? What do they expect from you? How do you see your relationship changing, if at all, from here with the base? Kewsong Lee - The Carlyle Group Inc. - CEO & Director Sure. yes. Look, I mean your question is a great one. And the overarching though issue that we're all facing, you're facing, I'm facing, your clients are facing, is we're at a 0% interest environment that's probably going to be here for a lot longer than people expect. And if you think about the clients of Carlyle, they're in the business of trying to find ways to position for long-term performance and where do they find those returns. And it's going to be in alternative assets. Whether it's private equity, private credit, private real estate, private infrastructure, there is a premium that our asset class and our industry has been able to deliver consistently over the past decades. And I think that's where our LPs are very concerned about and very focused on is how do they find performance in a low-yield 0% interest rate environment. So that backdrop is very favorable for us. Now within the context of that, they are consolidating relationships with those platforms and those organizations that they have the most trust with. And we've been around for many decades. We're trusted partners, and we have relationships with all the major LPs around the world. And what I suspect happens in the future is you're going to see more consolidation of assets into trusted, large platforms like Carlyle. I suspect you're going to see continued secular movement of assets into alternative asset industry because of the performance that we are generating. And I think all of that really is to our advantage, especially in a remote work environment that we find ourselves in, where they can't meet brand-new GPs, they're going to default to the firms that they have the most trust with, that they have the most history with, that they have strong relationships with. And that runs to our advantage. Alexander Blostein - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - Lead Capital Markets Analyst Yes. That's a good segue to talk a little bit about your focus and the vision that you have for Carlyle. Now you've been the sole CEO for nearly half a year now, give or take, and the CEO of Seat for almost 3 years and with the firm, I believe, for a little over 7 years. How has Carlyle changed over the years that you've been here? How do you see it continuing to evolve? And where are you spending most of your time and focus today? Kewsong Lee - The Carlyle Group Inc. - CEO & Director Sure. Well, look, we are moving from a private partnership focused on performing for LPs to an institutionalized full C corporation that is focused on delivering long-term value across all of our stakeholders. And clearly, driving shareholder value is something that is paramount and top of mind for me. So our big priorities right now, what I'm focusing most of my time on, is how do I drive -- keep the current momentum going. We clearly have real positive momentum. You mentioned that in your nice introduction. And I'm now focused on accelerating our growth moving forward. We're well-positioned. The industry has got great tailwinds, as I just described. The company has really focused our thinking around our strategic priorities, those investment strategies that we know we can scale in quantum. That drives operating leverage. And if I can keep our investment performance going, which we've been able to do this year. As you know, our accrued carry balance is close to $2 billion, year-to-date, up 14%. We're seeing lots of good pipeline for realizations and monetizations coming in the future. But if I can keep that and my teams can keep our performance going 3 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 09, 2020 / 2:20PM, CG.OQ - Carlyle Group Inc at Goldman Sachs Financial Services Conference (Virtual) strong, it sets up for, not only great FRE growth because of the scale that we're finding in our large strategies, but it sets up for great DE growth because of the carry that we know will come over the next several years. So if I add on top of all that a little bit of expense management and a thoughtful acquisition here or there, I think you have all the back -- all the major drivers for accelerating growth sustainably over the next several years. And I think that is very favorable from the perspective of what happens with shareholder value. Alexander Blostein - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - Lead Capital Markets Analyst Great. Let's unpack these a little bit. Kewsong Lee - The Carlyle Group Inc. - CEO & Director Sure. Alexander Blostein - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - Lead Capital Markets Analyst And we will start with fewer late earnings growth first. Look, you've made it very clear for a handful of years now, but this is 1 of your key priorities you talked about from the first time you and I met several years ago. So maybe given numerous growth strategies that you have in place, what do you think is the appropriate through the cycle FRE growth for Carlyle? And also, how do you see the margin evolving given the structure of your business and the focus on where that growth is coming from? Kewsong Lee - The Carlyle Group Inc. - CEO & Director Okay. Well, look, let me address that very important driver. I will point out, we'll unpack that in a lot more detail for everybody at an Investor Day that we're planning to hold sometime in the first half of next year, and we'll announce that date early in the year next year with respect to when we're going to do that. So hold on for the details with respect to the Investor Day. But high level, I established very early on, we are really focused on FRE. It's something that we hadn't really done, as you know, in the past. And I think the results are showing it, right? FRE has grown considerably. The margin has expanded, and we have more to go. We pointed you to the mid-30s in terms of FRE margin. And so what's -- for this year. So what's driving that? A few things. First, we're scaling our largest strategies even more. And when you do that, you don't need to scale your expense base to your team nearly as much as you're scaling the top line, obviously. And as a result, the operating leverage is going to create further pop in FRE and in margin. Second, we are finding new areas to grow, whether it's incremental growth in PE because of growth strategies, whether it's in the credit platform where we continue to launch strategies like infrastructure credit. We're finding continued success in credit opportunities. And so we're seeing great growth there. We're seeing wonderful growth in our Solutions business. Our secondaries business has scaled up significantly. And we have a co-investment strategy in the market, which is being well-received. So when you add on top of the scaling of our existing large flagship funds with new areas of growth, all with a view to picking large markets, large strategies and an ability to keep scaling and then you add, of course, expense management, all that leads to my view of feeling very positive about the fact that we're going to be able to continue and sustain growth in FRE for many years to come through the cycle. Now FRE isn't the only thing. As you know, it's all about DE, and that's where investment performance really comes in. I'm really proud of our teams and how well we focused on our portfolio and how we've been putting money to work through the crisis. And I think we're really -- our portfolio 4 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 09, 2020 / 2:20PM, CG.OQ - Carlyle Group Inc at Goldman Sachs Financial Services Conference (Virtual) is really set up well to monetize and have realizations. And if we can do that, you're going to see continued growth in DE through the next part of the cycle as well. Alexander Blostein - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - Lead Capital Markets Analyst Yes. That all makes sense. And we'll touch on some of the activity dynamics in a little bit. But just maybe close out the FRE discussion, improving sustainability of FRE has also been obviously a big focus point for you. And as you just highlighted, kind of stepping outside of the flagship is definitely part of that strategy. And we've seen you guys build out the credit platform pretty substantially and other businesses along the way. Kewsong Lee - The Carlyle Group Inc. - CEO & Director Right. Alexander Blostein - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - Lead Capital Markets Analyst So I was hoping we could spend a few minutes on that. When I look at credit, it's grown. What is the ultimate size of that platform? Do you think it could go to adjacent areas within credit that you think could get bigger? And ultimately, anything else on the new strategy side that you see the most interesting kind of scaling opportunities for the next couple of years. Kewsong Lee - The Carlyle Group Inc. - CEO & Director Sure. So taking a step back, we started at, I don't know, $20 billion, $25 billion. It is now over $50 billion. So we've doubled it ever since I announced that we are really pushing hard with a platform strategy in private credit. We -- you asked me, where do I see this going. Up and to the right, could we see another double over a reasonable number of years moving forward? Sure. It's a humongous asset class that is growing, is among the fastest-growing asset classes within the entire alternative asset management industry. I think LPs are realizing that there is a real benefit to finding premium on a relative basis versus traditional fixed income, where yields are obviously really, really, really low. In terms of strategies, in addition to those that we have set up. And so what we have our CLO business, which is one of the market leaders, I see continued growth there, especially as M&A activity comes back. We have a direct lending platform. I think we're undersized in direct lending relative to our brand, relative to our institution, relative to our capabilities. So we're going to spend a lot of time in the future trying to figure out how to keep that growing. Credit opportunities is already on a second-generation fund. It's doing great. I think that is a very scalable strategy. And we're in several billion dollars already in the ground. We can do even more there in the future. Distressed. Distressed, we are fourth generation right now in terms of fund. It's doing great. But I would say distressed is one area where all the liquidity that's in the market has probably hurt the ability to deploy. And so it is a viable strategy. It's got plenty of legs to grow. But I would say, currently right now, it's hard to deploy in distressed than not just because of the liquidity that's available to all these companies that otherwise would have been in distressed. In terms of new areas to grow, which is what you were asking, infrastructure credit is certainly a strategy, which is incredibly scalable. As our LPs are looking at what they're really earning in longer-dated traditional fixed income, they're finding that on a risk-reward basis, if they shift those dollars into things like private infrastructure credit, there's a yield pickup while still maintaining very solid defensive posture with respect to risk. And we're seeing increasing appetite from our LPs to bring allocation away from the traditional fixed income longer dated site into infrastructure credit, which, of course, will help fuel our growth. We're already over $1 billion into a brand-new strategy in terms of raising capital for it. And I suspect there's a lot more legs there in the future. Particularly, if you take a big step back and think about some of the priorities of the new administration, think about what areas of the economy need investment, the whole area of infrastructure clearly is something that I think has a lot of opportunity. 5 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 09, 2020 / 2:20PM, CG.OQ - Carlyle Group Inc at Goldman Sachs Financial Services Conference (Virtual) And then finally, in our credit platform, I can't help but mention, at some point in time, we are looking very hard at real estate credit. That is a tremendously large asset class, as everybody knows. It is a sector that is going through -- parts of it is going through stress. And there's going to be a need for private capital, not only on the equity part of the cap structure but, clearly, the credit portion. So at some point in time, I wouldn't be surprised if we look at opportunities there. And then finally, you've asked for opportunities, so I'll share them with you. I talked all about primarily United States and Europe, but Asia is an area where you're going to see increasing focus as leverage finance catches up to the equity component of our asset class. And in the -- over the longer term, whether it's China, whether it's even India, you're going to see private credit opportunities open up in that part of the world. Alexander Blostein - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - Lead Capital Markets Analyst Great. Thanks for that. That was great. I want to touch on your insurance strategy as well, and that's something you and I talked extensively about the last time we were here in person. And given your investment in Fortitude RE, I was wondering if we could maybe get a up-to-date kind of where we are in the process, perhaps rotating some of those assets to Carlyle's products? And then bigger picture, having partnered with that asset for a little while, how do you see your competitive position differentiating from other insurance space? Kewsong Lee - The Carlyle Group Inc. - CEO & Director Sure. Yes. We're really pleased with Fortitude. It's on or above expectations in terms of what it's doing. In terms of just the hard facts, the rotation, we are expecting $6 billion from the initial amount that was going to be rotated from Fortitude to Carlyle. We're at, I think, approximately $4 billion, and we see no reason why we're not going to hit target that we told you was going to happen when we announced the deal. With respect to the balance sheet of Fortitude, it's got excess capital, and we really like the way that excellent management team is managing risk. And in terms of pipeline of acquisition opportunities and growth, we see tremendous opportunities as it's a $10 trillion plus industry as it relates to legacy liabilities that we can look at acquiring to bulk up the balance sheet and to expand and grow Fortitude. Now where we're different, and I walked -- If I remember correctly, I walked your listeners through this last year, but at a high level, I kind of view us more as B2B as opposed to B2C. So a few points. First, we're more diverse in our book of business. Second, we're not originating directly from the consumer, a monoline -- in a monoline fashion, 1 product, rather, what we're doing is on a book by book basis, having discussions with other insurance companies to see what legacy liabilities we can buy or we can reinsure and acquire. As a result, we can control our growth. We don't have to deal with the end consumer as it relates to pricing. And finally, the regulatory setup, I like much better, because we're not dealing with tricky issues of how to price certain policies and how to deal with consumers. We're obviously dealing business-to-business with other insurance companies. So that's how we're different. We're domiciled in Bermuda, and we feel we're one of the largest reinsurers on the island. And we're very well set up with the talented management team to grow in a very different way than maybe some of the peers that you were referring to. Alexander Blostein - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - Lead Capital Markets Analyst Great. Thanks for that. Why don't we shift gears a little bit and talk about activity rates. And it definitely feels like things are starting to heat up. You're starting to see a lot more both deployment and realization activity from the financial sponsors broadly, and it feels like Carlyle specifically as well. So maybe talk to us a little bit about areas where you're seeing most compelling investment opportunities right now, given the set of macro conditions we talked about earlier. And just to kind of help us level set ourselves, how do you expect the pace of deployment to evolve relative to kind of the more muted $3 billion a quarter pace you've been on so far year-to-date? 6 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 09, 2020 / 2:20PM, CG.OQ - Carlyle Group Inc at Goldman Sachs Financial Services Conference (Virtual) Kewsong Lee - The Carlyle Group Inc. - CEO & Director Sure. Well, let me start by just saying, our pipelines have never been more full. We have never been more active than I can remember. I mean that's how busy we are. In terms of the areas of most interest to us and where we're perhaps seeing a lot of activity is, first, in Asia. We've already invested over $1.5 billion this year in China, in India, in Korea, across a whole range of industries, from financial services to consumer, to health care to tech. And so we see that region of the world very vibrant. And I throw Japan into it as well, very, very good activity with a very good deal flow. In terms of types of strategies, growth investing in private equity certainly is an area that has been very active throughout the year, and we see that continuing. There's so much disruption that's going on, be it the cloud, be it e-commerce, be it collaboration tools, be it cyber, be it cashless business models. And so as a result, when we -- and not to mention in health care, life sciences, telemedicine and a whole bunch of other trends that are happening, we see continued growth in those 2 sectors with respect to growth private equity investing. In terms of asset class, I think we have to say credit opportunities has been just a great place to be. The volatility is something that's harder to capture in PE because these deals take a little bit longer to -- in terms of throughput time, whereas credit, you can capture opportunities a little faster in the market. And as a result, we've seen a lot of investing activity and pipeline in our credit opportunity strategy. So we see a lot of activity. Now the real question is, when do the large big traditional buyouts come back? And we've already seen that start to happen. You -- hopefully, people read about our Flender transaction, a carve-out out of Siemens, an industrial company. And we are seeing pipeline develop in our industrial businesses, in industrial sectors. And I think it's just a matter of time before you start to see our industry announcing much larger transactions across all industries because we see -- we saw all the activity flow in pipeline building. A final comment on that, Alex, which is private equity activity, especially the more traditional larger types, follows corporate M&A activity. And you're starting to see corporate M&A as confidence returns to the CEO suite to get deals done and strategic combinations done. Well, when those acquisitions occur, those mergers occur, that's when subsidiaries are divested. That's when noncore businesses are sold, and that spawns more PE activity. So I think it's just a matter of time. As confidence returns, the economy recovers, M&A activity picks up. And then that will beget much more PE activity as well. Alexander Blostein - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - Lead Capital Markets Analyst Great. Great. No, that makes perfect sense. Look, accelerating pace of deployment obviously brings your next fundraiser super cycle into focus. And that's something we talked about in the beginning of the year when the world was very different, and that was sort of -- it feels like it will come maybe within 1.5 years to 2 years. Decline in deployment, obviously, had slowed that down. So curious if you can sort of mark us to market on where you guys stand with respect to your next round of flagship funds? Kewsong Lee - The Carlyle Group Inc. - CEO & Director Right. Alexander Blostein - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - Lead Capital Markets Analyst How would you frame that? And ultimately, what do you think is the sizing opportunity of that could be? Kewsong Lee - The Carlyle Group Inc. - CEO & Director Sure. Well, look, the next series of fundraisings is definitely coming. We're going to get into that in more detail at this Investor Day that we're hoping to announce early next year. Just to give you a sense, this year, 9 months, so through September, we raised $18 billion versus $16 billion last year. So with all the difficulties of working conditions and reduced travel, without ever meeting physically these LPs, we raised more money now than we raised last year. And that was done primarily in credit and in our solutions-based strategies in Alpinvest without any of our major flagship private equity funds in the market. So this is -- the increase in our fundraising was despite the fact that our big buyout in our big real estate funds aren't 7 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 09, 2020 / 2:20PM, CG.OQ - Carlyle Group Inc at Goldman Sachs Financial Services Conference (Virtual) in market. We expect all those flagship funds to come back into market starting next year over the next several years. So stay tuned for what's to come at the Investor Day, but we will unpack that for you in more detail. But suffice to stay, I think starting next year, for a sustained several years of time, you're going to see stepped up fundraising as it's just that part -- it's just time for these funds to reload. Alexander Blostein - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - Lead Capital Markets Analyst Great. Well, we'll stay tuned for that. All right. Let's talk about the other side of the coin when it comes to activity. You're really focusing on realizations. We talked a little bit about that again earlier on in the conversation. Carlyle is sitting on, I believe, your record amount of accrued carried interest. And the macro backdrop is clearly starting to improve. And for you guys, in particular, that's a very sizable source of earnings growth and cash flows, especially given the recognition dynamic of when you actually start to take the carry in. Maybe again, help us frame your outlook on realizations over the next 2 years. Obviously I understand it's very difficult to do for any particular quarter on a stand-alone basis. But are you thinking about the progress of realizations? It'd be very helpful. Kewsong Lee - The Carlyle Group Inc. - CEO & Director Well, look, as you know, it is very difficult, but -- to project quarter-by-quarter. But we have $2 billion of accrued carry. We just turned on carry at our largest private equity fund, CP 6. We announced that at our last earnings call. If you take a step back and think about what Carlyle has done despite this pandemic, we've had IPOs in the U.S., in India, in Japan, in last night in Brazil, one of the largest IPOs ever in Eshador, the leading hospital operator. So we're perfectly set up for distributions to come over the next 2, 3 years. The real secret ingredient for this to happen, though, is we've got to make sure our portfolios continue to perform. If that happens, the exits are just a matter of when and how. And so let's go back to the most basic thing is, which is our assets in the ground, how are they doing, how are they performing. By and large, we feel very good about our portfolio construction. If we go fund by fund by fund, we feel very confident about portfolio construction and about the rates of return that these funds are generating. I mean let me just mention U.S. real estate. It's a franchise where, because of how well the investment leaders of that strategy thought about their portfolio, we went into a pandemic with very little to no exposure to retail commercial office and hotels, which is remarkable, right? Just in terms of portfolio quality. And they're outperforming their indices in some instances by 500, 600 basis points. Our large PE funds are generating 18%, 17%, 19% gross rates of return. Clearly, in a 0% interest rate environment for very long dated assets, these are -- this is a great performance for LP. So it starts with performance. Our funds are constructed well. We feel pretty good about how they're positioned. If you look at our activity, M&A activity has been quite strong for us this year. You saw announcements with Supreme and with some other companies recently that we sold. The IPO activity, which I touched on, has been incredibly strong. So that's all setting the stage for. I'm pretty confident that over the next several years, you're going to see that accrued carry balance of ours, $2 billion right now and increasing quite well, you're going to see that accrued carry balance monetize and turn into carry. I can't tell you exactly what quarter that's going to happen. But the quality of our portfolios, the preparation with IPOs and the pipelines that we've got going gives me a pretty good sense of confidence that it will monetize over the next several years into carry income, drives DE and a nice earnings profile for the next several years. Alexander Blostein - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - Lead Capital Markets Analyst Great. All makes sense. So that's actually a good segue to talk about -- talking about capital dynamics for the balance sheet. Look, clearly, if the environment remains conducive to this, earnings growth is going to accelerate, as you pointed out, quite materially over the next couple of years. Your dividend is currently covered by your fee-related earnings, implying the realized performance fees and the acceleration there really provides you with a lot of incremental capital to deploy. Maybe walk us through sort of the framework for dividend growth from here. Any thoughts around accelerating share repurchase activity because as a way to almost crystallize some of those incentive fee earnings, which the market is not always going to put a big multiple on that, right? So how do you turn that into something more permanent for the shareholders? 8 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 09, 2020 / 2:20PM, CG.OQ - Carlyle Group Inc at Goldman Sachs Financial Services Conference (Virtual) Kewsong Lee - The Carlyle Group Inc. - CEO & Director Yes. Well, let me share with you how we think about -- how this management team thinks about this very important question of capital and what we do with it. So first and foremost, we have a view that our dividend should never go down. It should only go up over time. And it should trend on a lagging basis to what we believe sustainable levels of FRE should be. So as our FRE trends up and continues to hit points where we believe that we're at another level of sustainability and we're going to get to another level of sustainability, you're going to see the dividend move up in conjunction. Again, on a lag basis, to make sure that we're -- it's sustainable, but you're going to see our dividend track. Second, as we generate this capital, our first and most important priority is to support our investing strategies. As you know, the GP co-invests alongside our LPs. So as we grow, we're going to need that capital to grow and to support our investing strategies. Second, we're going to use our capital in organic ways to drive growth where we believe our shareholders can benefit from excess return. So we think there's a lot of opportunity to invest in our businesses to support organic growth, and we believe that it's a good use of capital to drive future value creation for our shareholders. Third, we will make acquisitions along the way but in a very focused and strategic way. There's no quota every year or a check-the-box view on how to do acquisitions. Rather, it's about how do we be very strategic and where do we grow externally in adjacencies that expand us in ways that are very accretive to earnings. So what are the places where that could occur? Clearly, our credit business is a platform where if I can see more ways to expand our CLO business through acquisition, sure, other types of lending functions, sure, because these are businesses where you can acquire assets, acquire -- but you don't need to really bulk up from an expense perspective. So I have a very much a view of being a strategic buyer there if the deals make sense. Every once in a while, we'll think about something, which is a stand-alone, like Fortitude. But that's not going to be every month. That's going to be every once in a while, if it's something very strategic and can really move the needle for Carlyle, then we'll think about deploying in an acquisition within -- externally. Then only after that do we get to, okay, then do we have excess capital, then, of course, we want to be able to thoughtfully return that to our shareholders to continue driving shareholder value. So that's kind of the hierarchy and the waterfall of how we do things. We think there's plenty of opportunity organically and intrinsically to continue to drive growth in a way where I think our shareholders will be quite pleased with our ability to earn a great return on that capital. Alexander Blostein - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - Lead Capital Markets Analyst Great. Well, you answered my M&A question before I had a chance to ask. That was great. So we got about a minute and change a lot. I do want to take a couple of questions from the web. So there's 1 coming in around -- actually, kind of along the same lines, and it's really about the capital goods business. We've seen a handful of your peers build out increasing capabilities within capital markets. How do you think about that opportunity for Carlyle, especially through the ones that you just kind of described but maybe retaining some of that excess cash and excess capital that will be generated over the next couple of years? Kewsong Lee - The Carlyle Group Inc. - CEO & Director Yes. It's a very perceptive question. We are on this. We have an internal and integrated capital markets unit. You're going to see us build that out as a part of our credit business. We have allocated capital to that unit. It is my belief that we will be able to grow that business. I want to manage that business very carefully because we are partners to our financing sources and our financing partners. So to the Goldman Sachs and the JPMorgans of the world, we're working in partnership with them. On the other hand, we do have an ability using capital to underwrite and to help our portfolio of companies with financings. And so we do have an effort right now in capital markets to capture more earnings over time related to all of the financing activity, M&A activity, from the extended platform of Carlyle. 9 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 09, 2020 / 2:20PM, CG.OQ - Carlyle Group Inc at Goldman Sachs Financial Services Conference (Virtual) Alexander Blostein - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - Lead Capital Markets Analyst Great. Awesome. Well, that was super helpful. Thank you so much for the update. So on behalf of myself, my team, Goldman Sachs broadly, thank you so much for being here. Always a pleasure to spend some time with you and to hear your perspective. Kewsong Lee - The Carlyle Group Inc. - CEO & Director Well, Alex, I want to thank you. I want to thank Goldman Sachs for having me. And I wish you and everybody listening, I hope you all stay safe and healthy, and have a great holiday season. Alexander Blostein - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - Lead Capital Markets Analyst You as well. Thanks, Kew. Kewsong Lee - The Carlyle Group Inc. - CEO & Director Take care, Alex. DISCLAIMER Refinitiv reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes. In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized. THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES REFINITIV OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS. 2020, Refinitiv. All Rights Reserved. 13537499-2020-12-09T16:58:08 10 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 09, 2020 / 2:20PM, CG.OQ - Carlyle Group Inc at Goldman Sachs Financial Services Conference (Virtual)
REFINITIV STREETEVENTS EDITED TRANSCRIPT STAR.N - iStar Inc at Bank of America Leveraged Finance Virtual Conference EVENT DATE/TIME: DECEMBER 02, 2020 / 10:15PM GMT REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS Jay S. Sugarman iStar Inc. - Executive Chairman & CEO CONFERENCE CALL PARTICIPANTS Andrew Samuel Molloy BofA Merrill Lynch, Research Division - Research Analyst PRESENTATION Andrew Samuel Molloy - BofA Merrill Lynch, Research Division - Research Analyst Good afternoon, everyone. I'm Andrew Molloy, and I cover high-yield and high-grade REITs for the bank. Thanks for joining us for iStar's presentation this afternoon. iStar is a New York-based finance and investment REIT focused on the commercial real estate industry with over $6 billion of real estate assets. As we will hear in more detail shortly, iStar is executing on a multiyear business transformation to focus on its ground lease and triple net lease platform. Participants on today's call have access to iStar's presentation and can submit questions to me directly for Q&A on the Veracast Conference platform or via email at andrew.molloy@bofa.com. With us today, we have Jay Sugarman on the line, Chairman and CEO. We now welcome his team to share its presentation and a Q&A will follow. Thank you. Jay S. Sugarman - iStar Inc. - Executive Chairman & CEO Thanks, Andrew, and thanks, everybody, for joining us today. As Andrew said, 2 years ago, we set out really with a new strategy for iStar that we thought would create significant value and materially increase the credit quality of our portfolio. You can see the elements of that strategy on Page 2 of our presentation. One of the goals at that time was to see if we could simplify our story and tell the entire story in less than 10 pages. So we think we've got it down to about 8. And I'll just run through those today, but the punchline is there are really 3 pillars on which we are building in 2021 and 2022. The first was to scale Safehold, and we'll talk a lot about that. That's our new modernized ground lease business. We think it's got enormous potential. So far, it has been a very, very successful investment for iStar. Now has over $2 billion invested with almost $1 billion of embedded gain. Safehold has been the #1 performing REIT over the last 23 months. So that element of the platform has gone extremely well. We'll show you some slides on that business. The second element was to really strengthen the balance sheet. Take away any question marks that folks might have around the significant equity base that we've built up, push out maturities on any debt and really give ourselves a chance to scale Safehold with very few questions about the financial strength of iStar. We've seen that -- those actions result in some good positive rating agency results. And we've now pushed out our maturities, so we have nothing coming due for the next approximately 24 months. The third piece of the puzzle is just to make sure the spotlight is on Safehold and on the strength of other parts of our balance sheet. One of the ways we wanted to do that was to make legacy assets a smaller and smaller proportion, so that people could not have to spend much time on those. We've got them down to about 13% of the total portfolio. We've liquidated almost $400 million over the past 24 months. That's a process that continues even despite COVID. We're making that simple, more straightforward portfolio and balance sheet, an easy entry point for folks to understand the real value that's building up at iStar. Let me spend a minute on Safehold. If you switch to Page 3, just a couple of quick highlights. You can see over the last 24 months, it's grown from a very small part of iStar to a very large part, almost a north of $2 billion increase, very sizable unrealized gain in that investment. The reason we like that and the reason we think the market likes it is an extremely high-quality principal safe business. Even during COVID, 100% of ground rent payments have been received. It's a fast-growing business. 2 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 02, 2020 / 10:15PM, STAR.N - iStar Inc at Bank of America Leveraged Finance Virtual Conference We are the creators of the modern ground lease industry. We think we've unlocked value for all major property owners around the country with this new, more efficient capital solution. We've delivered an opportunity for shareholders to participate in an asset class that historically has made incredible fortunes for a few lucky landowners. We're now bringing a national institutionally scaled platform in the public markets so that more people can participate in the very significant value-creating that takes place in the ground lease world. We've seen some good take-up by the customers. We've grown almost tenfold since we went public. We're now at about $3 billion in our portfolio, have a nice pipeline, around $0.5 billion going forward. And obviously, the shareholder returns continue to be quite good. On Page 4, you can see how the portfolio has grown, starting a little over $300 million in 2017 to a little bit over $3 billion today, pro forma. So exceptional growth rate. Really, that's a testament to this better mousetrap that we've created. Ground leases have been around for a long time but very much fell out of favor. They were poorly structured. They were really one-off situations. There was no gold standard. There was no real thought process about how to make them customer-friendly, value-enhancing for building owners. We flipped all that on its head and said, this is an idea that has been expressed in the corporate markets for decades. The idea of splitting and operating business around -- away from the fixed assets that it runs on, 2 different investments, 2 different risk-reward profiles, should be 2 different investors. And when you get that right and you create the right efficient investors in each, one plus one equals more than two. In the real estate world, there's never again been a national institutional quality platform that delivered those benefits to property owners. We modernized the ground lease, we standardized it, we pressure tested it with lenders in our own portfolio and we realized that here, too, one plus one equal more than two. A lot of value to be unlocked. And that value came from improved capital efficiency, really separating two very different investments and letting the market price each of those individually created value, eliminating a lot of friction costs. You can see the cost efficiency. When you think about a ground lease, takes the land, puts it in a drawer for 100 years. No more transfer fees. No more mortgage recording taxes. No more survey, legal. All those frictional costs, at least on the land, go away. That unlocks value. And then from a risk standpoint, you're basically taking short-term debt maturity risk and for that customer, extending a big chunk of that out 99 years. And if you think about what gets real estate folks in trouble, it's typically having debt maturity during a weak fundamental economy. We've just taken about half that risk and eliminated it. So we've seen good take-up from the customer side. We do think there's a $7 trillion pool of addressable commercial real estate in the top 30 markets that we target. So even at $3 billion, we're just scratching the surface. We think the future looks very bright in terms of the take-up we're seeing for customers right now. And then for investors, if you look on Page 5, and this is important from a credit perspective at iStar, the capital we're deploying at SAFE is going into 1 of the safest real estate investments in the entire complex of real estate. You can see how we line it up against the typical strata of a CMBS deal, where the senior-most 0 to 35% looks to be AAA quality. Guess what, ground leases occupy that same place in the capital structure of a property. And so when you have a portfolio of what is essentially very, very high-grade bonds as your asset class, the bigger you get, you're creating what is essentially a triple-lease position with tremendous amount of money subordinated to you from leasehold mortgages and equity sponsors. So this idea that ground leases are one of the safest places to invest is, obviously, a nice place to be, given some of the choppiness in the world these days. That is compounded by the return side of the story on Page 6. These are not only very, very safe investments, they're very long investments. They grow. Unlike most fixed income instruments, the coupon actually grows, on average, about 2% a year, contractually. That growth compounds over this long call protected period. And so what you get on Page 6 is the difference between the blue line, which is the income stream from what we think is our AAA equivalent, 100-year instrument versus where the market price is, AAA equivalent, 100-year fixed income instruments. In this case, represented by some long-term bonds issued by some of the larger educational institutions in our country: MIT, USC, Penn. There's several billion dollars of bonds trading in both this tenor. And you can see those trade at about a 3.2%, 3.3% yield to maturity. Whereas the yield to maturity on our portfolio is somewhere north of 5%. So we think the outperformance here, compounded by the idea that it lasts for a very, very long time, sets us up very nicely in terms of a very safe return, an above-market return and one that as we get larger and more diversified continues to feel more and more like a AAA above market bond. For iStar, that has some important credit positives. You can start on Page 7 to see how we lay those out. If you think about it in its most basic form, we're taking money out of our -- the riskiest part of our portfolio, our legacy assets. We're redeploying it into the very safest part of our portfolio, the ground lease assets over at Safehold. And we're strengthening the balance sheet all along the way. So what you see on Page 7 is our unencumbered 3 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 02, 2020 / 10:15PM, STAR.N - iStar Inc at Bank of America Leveraged Finance Virtual Conference asset base improving materially. This is over the last, again, 24 months. Our UA/UD substantially increasing. As I mentioned, we pushed out maturities towards the end of 2022. Leverage has come down materially. And we have, for a long time, been a big believer in unsecured debt and continue to make it the primary form of financing we use, gives us a lot of flexibility, gives, obviously, investors a lot of collateral to look at with an unencumbered asset base of almost $4.8 billion. So the credit story has certainly got better as the portfolio has gotten simpler, as Safehold has scaled. To make that even more clear, on Page 8, you can see the components of iStar today really Safehold driving the largest portion of our portfolio. That is the highest quality investments, we think, in the entire real estate world. Our net lease book, also a very stable long-term business, is the second largest component. We've talked on our calls about some of the industries that are impacted and how we've navigated through that in some of the largest ones. So that feels like quite a good book at this point. Our loan book has a weighted average lease maturity now about 2 years. So it's relatively short term. We have good visibility on that. That represents a relatively small piece of the portfolio today. And then the legacy portfolio components have shrunk materially. The short term, we expect to be gone over the next 24 months. The long-term is really just 3 assets, and we do talk about those extensively on our calls. All of them actually have done quite well during the COVID period: 2 are housing sensitive, and 1 is a triple net lease to a long-term -- to a very high-grade credit that we're waiting to see if they extend that lease further. So when you take all the asset components dominated by Safehold and net lease, you take out our debt, you can see our adjusted total equity value is almost $3 billion today. That's substantially up since 24 months ago. If you look on Page 9, we make that comparison quite easy. You can see it both on a equity basis before adding back depreciation and then after. We think, again, the right-hand side is the proper way to think about our business. So we've seen our overall equity cushion for our creditors grow from a little bit under $1.5 billion to just under $3 billion today. So almost double the equity subordination and support in terms of the balance sheet today. So that's the story at iStar. We continue to execute on it. We think the last 2 years have gone nicely according to plan. We expect the next 2 years to really -- and start to reap the benefits of all the hard work that's been done at Safehold on the balance sheet. And in terms of selling off some of the less core legacy assets and redeploying into the highest quality assets in our book, both net lease and ground lease. And we think from a creditors' standpoint, all that good news continues to be reflected in the balance sheet metrics and certainly think there's more good news to come as we see COVID sort of move into the background and Safehold continue to build on its dominant position in the modern ground lease industry. And Andrew, I think that's -- I think we did it in 8 pages this time. So happy to take some questions if people have them. QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS Andrew Samuel Molloy - BofA Merrill Lynch, Research Division - Research Analyst Yes. That's very helpful. A good background. One of the pressing questions that I received from investors is, what will, ultimately, be the endgame with your investment in SAFE? And maybe what were the compelling circumstances for its spinoff in 2017 versus maintaining those assets at the time on a consolidated basis? Jay S. Sugarman - iStar Inc. - Executive Chairman & CEO Sure. So we thought the architecture -- putting Safehold on its own as a pure play, what is effectively a AAA asset base would not work inside of iStar, given our cost of funds. We are not looking to complicate what is a very powerful, very simple story, very easy credit story. We get the benefit of the credit quality that's safe at iStar anyway as its largest owner and its investment manager. So this is kind of the best of both worlds SAFE becomes a pure play, ultra-high grade asset base that we can tell people the modern ground lease story very simply. They don't need to understand a lot of other components in the real estate world. In fact, they don't really even have to understand real estate. It's so safe in the capital structure that it looks a lot more like a high-grade bond portfolio than real estate. 4 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 02, 2020 / 10:15PM, STAR.N - iStar Inc at Bank of America Leveraged Finance Virtual Conference For iStar, again, we got the benefits of the growth. We got the benefits of being its largest owner and manager. We think the architecture we set up was perfect for scaling the business, for introducing the modern ground lease business we've created. We don't necessarily think that architecture is set in stone. We've publicly said over some period of time once Safehold reaches a sizable scale, that architecture may not be the value-maximizing one. And because iStar is so intimately incentivized to help Safehold reach its maximum value, there could be a conversation where there is a better architecture, whether that means internalizing management over at Safehold or some other transaction. So we think the next 2 years will tell that story. We think Safehold is on a great path to reach a scale where it will have the opportunity to have that conversation with its largest shareholder, to figure out how to maximize value. We think that's going to give iStar a lot of choices. But in the meantime, we think continuing to grow its value, continuing to simplify and strengthen the balance sheet are going to happen, part and parcel with Safehold's growth. So it's a good 2-year period to continue to test what is the best architecture long term, and we'll certainly have more to say about that probably towards the end of 2021. Andrew Samuel Molloy - BofA Merrill Lynch, Research Division - Research Analyst So sticking with Safehold here for a minute. You noted that ground lease business is a $7 trillion pool in top 30 markets that you look at and SAFE is only at $3 billion, just scratching the surface. What do you think is iStar's and SAFE's advantage here in this type of lease structure and asset type? And how hard is it for other players to enter into this as an institutional investment and thesis? Jay S. Sugarman - iStar Inc. - Executive Chairman & CEO Yes. It's a great question. I mean, look, I've been interested in ground leases for 20 years and couldn't really figure out how to turn it into a business. Nobody else has ever figured it out. Really, the idea came sort of 3 or 4 years ago to me, that the missing piece here is most ground leases were idiosyncratic. They were structured for the benefit of the landowner. The building owner kind of held their nose and thought about, should I or shouldn't I because it was kind of a one-sided conversation. What was missing in that conversation was what was happening in the corporate world, in the net lease world. Every corporation out there was being forced to be more efficient with their capital, the operating businesses were being separated from the fixed assets. The communication companies were shedding cell towers, the logistics companies were shedding warehouses and cold storage. And you just go down the line and the capital markets had spoken long ago that you don't tie the operating business and the fixed assets together, it's two different investor bases, two different risk rewards. And you get much more efficiency if you separate them and let investors choose which one they want to invest in and you let the most efficient owner focus on what they do best. Well, that's what we've been bringing, that mentality that we developed in the net lease corporate world for 20 years. And we said, wow, this is the same dynamic in real estate. There's an operating business. It's the building, you got to lease it, manage it, design it, market it, buy it, sell it, finance it. It's the operating business of the real estate world. The land is a fixed asset, very passive, long term, low returns, low beta. Why are people raising capital to put a chunk into the operating business and a chunk into us, effectively, a very high-grade long term bond? That is completely inefficient and the capital markets got rid of that in almost every other industry long ago. Why hasn't it happened here? And so what you'd see is it actually requires the expertise that we developed over 30 years in terms of understanding the leasehold loan component, understanding the buyer, operators' perspective, future buyers' perspective, understanding the fixed income nature of the cash flow streams and how to maximize their value and finance them appropriately. We've got a -- north of a 30-year weighted average life financing structures in place at Safehold. We've completely neutralized interest rate risk on the assets we've invested in for 30-plus years. Some of those loans go out 50 years. So we really reinvented the ground lease concept for customers to make it value-enhancing to show them that this is a win-win. It's a one plus one equals more than two. Not, hey, we're a landowner, you want to be on my land? Here's the terms you have to take. So we flipped the business to be a value creator. That was a big piece of it. We then went to the liability side and created completely new proprietary ways to finance it on an extremely long-term basis to really neutralize any risk there. 5 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 02, 2020 / 10:15PM, STAR.N - iStar Inc at Bank of America Leveraged Finance Virtual Conference And then I guess last piece is, there's never been a national platform, institutional scale, institutional quality that isn't -- we're not out buying ground leases. We're actually building a ground lease industry by making the ground lease part of the mainstream capital solution that everybody thinks about. And when I say that there's a $7 trillion opportunity and we're only at $3 billion, it's really based on what we've already seen, which is customers have gone from, I would say, originally, I don't get it, how does this work, to I want to do more of this, to now they're calling us and saying, I get it, it works, it's better. I want to use it in more places. Can you continue to iterate with me and find even more ways to use this very simple tool, which is take these two very different investments, separate them for the benefit of both. And we think that dynamic is only growing in recognition and acceptance. I don't -- it's not an easy journey. And anybody who wants to follow us can certainly copy our web pages, but they won't have the 4 or 5 years of research pressure tested in hundreds of deals, negotiations, documentations. They won't have the credibility with the dozens and dozens of leasehold lenders we've worked with, the hundreds of sponsors we've worked with. So certainly, there will be competition. It's going to be a big industry, and there will be others. But I would say we're way out ahead of everybody. We have proprietary information that we're not giving away, that we don't share with the marketplace. And unless somebody is going to put a real shoulder to it, they're going to find it a very hard lift to replicate what we've done. Andrew Samuel Molloy - BofA Merrill Lynch, Research Division - Research Analyst Thank you. Sticking still with ground leases and a question coming in from the investors listening. You talk about how lease -- how these ground leases have similar characteristics as bonds. Do you see ground leases trading on exchange or some other marketplace in the future, perhaps like MBS securities? Jay S. Sugarman - iStar Inc. - Executive Chairman & CEO Yes. There's certainly a potential, as the industry scales and as the diversification grows, to use techniques from other parts of the capital market and the credit markets to really refine even further the pricing, both of the assets and the liabilities. I don't think we need to do that just yet. Certainly, the opportunity and the return profile is sufficient for us to keep going the way we're going. But we think both more refined secured ways to finance and/or unsecured ways are certainly in our future. It's been very gratifying to see the counterparties who do provide us debt continue to grow with us, continue to innovate with us. So we see continued accretive capital growth is going to be part of our future in lots of different ways. So we're creating very accretive assets, and we have a very accretive cost of capital. That's a recipe for a very good business. And again, if the underlying assets are super safe, super secure, we can spend more of our time trying to refine our liability structure because we don't have any operating expense or capital expense. We don't have any operating responsibilities. These are very quiet, very high quality, very consistent, just income streams. And what we're trying to do is find a way to bring them to the parts of the market that really value that, and we already know that the fact that they grow and compound and are call protected for long periods of time, make them superior to the alternatives. So part of our job is just to get out there and show people how to think about it, give them a sense of how big this market is going to be and why they should spend a lot of time on it right now. We say that to the equity investors. We say that to the credit investors. And we still feel like we're just at the beginning. We've had some good success, but I think our success, hopefully, has just begun because all the logic and pillars and foundations of our idea are coming true. And if they are true, then I think this is a much, much bigger business. Andrew Samuel Molloy - BofA Merrill Lynch, Research Division - Research Analyst Quickly, one last question on iStar -- or on SAFE, the recently raised $115 million. Has that capital been deployed? And what is SAFE sort of looking -- looking at in the market? 6 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 02, 2020 / 10:15PM, STAR.N - iStar Inc at Bank of America Leveraged Finance Virtual Conference Jay S. Sugarman - iStar Inc. - Executive Chairman & CEO Yes. So we've been using a strategy to kind of top-up our dry powder well ahead of when we needed it. We'd like to keep between $0.5 billion and $1 billion of dry powder given the way we see the pipeline growing. So that recent deal was just a top-up deal. We do those on a pretty much a quick hitting basis. I think our goal is, as we scale, to start doing larger transactions where we can really take the time to explain all the parts of the puzzle at Safehold, which I think equity investors are going to get very excited about. We've really only talked about 1 of the 3 value generators in that business, and really this fixed income component, but there is a very powerful growth component, very accretive growth component. And we think there's a very powerful real estate story as well. So I think the goal is to have ample liquidity at all times to serve our customers wherever they need us, whenever they need us, and we'll keep doing that. But I think you'll see us be really focused not just on these little top-up raises, but some of the ones where we can really go out and tell our story more widely. We can't think of any investor, whether you are on the credit side, or the equity side, whether you're endowment, pension fund sovereign or you're a retail investor, 401(k) adviser, private wealth manager, this combination of principal security, fast growth and tremendous upside, I think, resonates with almost any kind of investor. And you really don't need any deep understanding of real estate. All you need to know is kind of location, location, location and highest and best use, and you'll understand our business. So what we see today is, no, we have not spent all the money. And again, we try to top-up well in advance of spending the money, but we see all signs that the real estate transaction market is beginning to pick up the pace. We've seen that really since Labor Day. The teams -- our investment teams are very engaged across the board. About 2/3 of what we're working on right now is multifamily. The rest is mostly office. And we see both of those as opportunities to really breakthrough in a lot of key markets for us. So happy to see our teams engaged, happy to see the quality of assets they're engaged on. Still doing a lot of educating, still helping people really understand the difference between old ground leases and new ground leases, sort of straight financing versus splitting the land and the building apart and coming up with what we think is a far more efficient financing. But again, the proof is a little bit in the pudding. You can see the customer adoption rates going up. You can see our repeat customer business is about 50%. So once we break through with a customer, we tend to get more business with them. Because once they're comfortable, then they see the benefits, they want to do more with us. So all those signs point to good things ahead, and we will certainly spend the money we have and continue to refine how we access capital. So we get the biggest bang for the buck for our shareholders. And certainly, that will benefit iStar at the end of the day. Andrew Samuel Molloy - BofA Merrill Lynch, Research Division - Research Analyst A question from the field. Can you talk about the cash generation of the portfolio? And how that gets reinvested in your growth in dividends? Jay S. Sugarman - iStar Inc. - Executive Chairman & CEO For Safehold or iStar? Andrew Samuel Molloy - BofA Merrill Lynch, Research Division - Research Analyst For iStar. Jay S. Sugarman - iStar Inc. - Executive Chairman & CEO Okay. So think about the components. Over at iStar, we have both the dividend and the management fee and reimbursements coming out of SAFE. Those are very, very safe, dependable, consistent, growing. We have our net lease cash flows. Other than, I think, the small part that's in the movie theater exposures, which is probably less than $200 million out of the $6 billion book, most of that book feels really good. We see lots of continued cash flow coming out of the net lease side, both in things we own directly and the things we own with our sovereign wealth partner. 7 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 02, 2020 / 10:15PM, STAR.N - iStar Inc at Bank of America Leveraged Finance Virtual Conference The loan book, I mentioned, is we got about a 2-year weighted average life, which means that's self-liquidating. That's going to generate hundreds of millions of dollars of free cash flow over the next 2 years. We're selling legacy assets. That's going to generate significant amounts of free cash flow. We'll allocate that cash across our opportunity set. Again, we love the ground lease business. We think there's tangents to it that make a lot of sense for us. We'll look at other places to invest. But right now, obviously, our focus has been on ground lease because the return profile in that business definitely represents some of the best investing I've seen in 30 years of my career. So money coming out of loans, money coming out of legacy will go mostly back into ground lease. And that's what you should expect to see, but there should be plenty of liquidity for continuing our dividend. It's a modest conservative dividend level, and we have no debt maturity for the next 2 years effectively. So not really too concerned about the dividend level or meeting our obligations because, candidly, we don't have much for the next 2 years. Andrew Samuel Molloy - BofA Merrill Lynch, Research Division - Research Analyst Quickly shifting to the balance sheet. Still regarding credit ratings, senior unsecured debt ratings are split between the agencies here. Can you share an update with us on the conversations you've had with agencies and maybe your insight as to why S&P and Fitch are one notch higher than Moody's? And where you see ratings trajectory going in the next few years? Jay S. Sugarman - iStar Inc. - Executive Chairman & CEO Yes. It's interesting. I mean, each one has their own criteria. And they're all a little bit different. Some view preferred as debt, some view it as equity. Some don't give us any credit for the unrealized capital gain in the SAFE stock. That's reached almost $1 billion -- north of $1 billion. That, to us, is real value. We haven't entirely gotten the agencies to give us credit for that in terms of their leverage metrics. So our capital markets team and Brett did a good job of kind of walking them through our view of the world and trying to make sure they understand that this is not the same story it was 2 years ago. It's significantly stronger. We've done a lot to simplify the balance sheet, a lot to strengthen the balance sheet. We are an unsecured -- primarily an unsecured borrower. That's different than a lot of other folks that sometimes we get compared to. So I can't tell you specifically. Each individual agency has rationale for why we are where we are. I think Brett's team works very hard to make sure all the success we're having is being reflected. But again, there's some fundamental things that I think drive a little bit of the difference. If you give us credit for the full value of SAFE, if you view preferred as a credit support to creditors, you get a very different, certainly a higher grade view than if you don't count those things. So we know the path to try to continue to create value, ultimately, will lead to better credit metrics. Better credit metrics should lead to better ratings. So I think the path is, for us, is just to continue to succeed in the strategy we laid out, do what we told them we would do, meet those milestones and get some credit for some of the stuff that right now, we don't, candidly, think we get credit for. Andrew Samuel Molloy - BofA Merrill Lynch, Research Division - Research Analyst I want to be cognizant of your time. I'll pause briefly to see if there's any other questions from the field. Well, thank you very much. We appreciate you on our conference, Jay, and really appreciate your time today. Jay S. Sugarman - iStar Inc. - Executive Chairman & CEO Thank you, Andrew. Thanks, everybody. Hopefully, we'll see everybody in person next year. Andrew Samuel Molloy - BofA Merrill Lynch, Research Division - Research Analyst Thank you. Good luck, and happy holidays. 8 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 02, 2020 / 10:15PM, STAR.N - iStar Inc at Bank of America Leveraged Finance Virtual Conference Jay S. Sugarman - iStar Inc. - Executive Chairman & CEO Thanks. Take care. DISCLAIMER Refinitiv reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes. In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized. THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES REFINITIV OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS. 2020, Refinitiv. All Rights Reserved. 13537500-2020-12-21T07:00:08.647 9 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 02, 2020 / 10:15PM, STAR.N - iStar Inc at Bank of America Leveraged Finance Virtual Conference
REFINITIV STREETEVENTS EDITED TRANSCRIPT ALL.N - Allstate Corp at Goldman Sachs Financial Services Conference (Virtual) EVENT DATE/TIME: DECEMBER 09, 2020 / 3:00PM GMT REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS Thomas Joseph Wilson The Allstate Corporation - President, CEO & Director CONFERENCE CALL PARTICIPANTS Yaron Joseph Kinar Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - Research Analyst PRESENTATION Yaron Joseph Kinar - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - Research Analyst Everybody, I'm Yaron Kinar, Goldman Sachs' Insurance Analyst. With me this morning, I'm very pleased to have President and CEO of Allstate, Tom Wilson. Just a couple of housekeeping items. If you have any questions, please use the button at the bottom of your screen or the box at the bottom of your screen to send those in. We will go into a Q&A after a presentation that Tom is going to lead. Tom, with that, hand it over to you. Thomas Joseph Wilson - The Allstate Corporation - President, CEO & Director Thank you, Yaron. Good morning, everybody. Thank you for taking time to invest and learn about why Allstate is a good investment. Before we begin, if you go to Slide 1, we're going to use a number of forward-looking statements today, and we'll use some references to non-GAAP measures. So just need to make sure you consider those in the context of all the information we'll give you, whether it's 10-K or the 10-Q, all of which you can get on our website at allstateinvestors.com. So let's begin with Allstate's strategy on Slide 2. I think you have to click through. So our strategy has 2 components: increase personal property-liability market share and expand into other protection businesses. So if you start with that upper oval, that's personal property-liability market. Of course, there is auto insurance, home insurance, boat, personal liability, motorcycles. And we're going to increase market share in that sector by -- through our transformative growth plan, which has 3 components: expanding customer access, improving customer value and investing in technology and marketing. And we'll talk about all of those in a few minutes. We're also expanding the protection offerings and increasing our total addressable market, as highlighted in the bottom oval. So -- and what we're doing there is really leveraging the Allstate brand, our customer base and then our operating capabilities. And it's been highly successful for a bunch of those businesses. And those growth platforms create a circle of protection, where we can surround our customers, and it also supports the Property-Liability business. So for a company that what we think our purpose is to empower customers with protection so that they can achieve their hopes and dreams, and there's been plenty of protecting from this year, whether that's, of course, the pandemic, which we're all familiar with, but there's been lots of hurricanes, hailstorms, wildfires and then record-low interest rates. And it's required us to execute with both speed and efficiency. And as you can see from a few of the highlights on the right-hand side of 2020, we're performing exceptionally well while adapting to the pandemic. Profitability remains excellent with adjusted net income of the last 12 months of $12.07 a share and a return on equity of 17.7%. Implementation of Transformative Growth plan is well underway. We also agreed to acquire National General to strengthen our competitive position in the independent agent channel. And then additionally, Allstate Protection Plans continues to grow rapidly, just really hitting the cover off the ball this year. If you go to Slide 3, let me discuss our strategy to increase the personal and Property-Liability market share through Transformative Growth. As I said, this is a multiyear strategic initiative and it's got these 3 components: expand customer access, improve customer value, and that means more competitive pricing, and we do that by lowering our cost structure and creating new products; thirdly, investing in technology and marketing, that 2 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 09, 2020 / 3:00PM, ALL.N - Allstate Corp at Goldman Sachs Financial Services Conference (Virtual) includes building a new technology platform, a whole stack to -- which will enhance our digital and analytical ecosystem, which is advanced today, but we think we can do a lot better. We're also investing in marketing to increase growth. And that will increase annual recurring revenues while maintaining attractive margins. And as you know, with customer retention, our property-liability products, above 80%, we have a very high percentage of recurring revenues. If you turn to Slide 4, so we can discuss the second part of our strategy, we're expanding into other protection products and services by leveraging the Allstate brand, our enterprise capabilities and customer base, the wide variety of distribution channels. These products and services include consumer protection plans, workplace benefits, identity protection, shared economy protection, roadside assistance and automobile extended warranties. These growth businesses substantially increase our total addressable market. For example, with Allstate Protection products, we now protect a wide range of consumer electronics, cellphones, tablets and appliances. And the business is now expanding into the furniture category and internationally. Another common characteristic of this business is lower capital requirements, which results in attractive returns. In aggregate, these businesses are a significant size and increasingly meaningful to Allstate's total valuation. So policies in force exceeded $137 million, reflecting significant growth of Allstate Protection Plans. Collectively, they generated $3.8 billion of premiums and adjusted net income of $190 million over the last 12 months, and that's despite the fact that we're investing heavily in growth. We're also building emerging businesses in telematics and car sharing. We created Arity out of our insurance operations. We set it up outside the insurance operations to provide scaled telematics resources for both Allstate and other companies. Arity also has an extensive data collection relationships, and we're focused on expanding the total addressable market. We're also building a car sharing platform Avail, which initiated operations last year. That includes building peer-to-peer car sharing models for insurance companies since people like Allstate, we obviously write hundreds of millions of dollars' worth of cars a year, and this will give us a lower cost model. Avail also has an offering for travelers, and it's currently operating at 13 airports, although business is a little slow right now. But we're using this opportunity to further expand. And there's also a community offering. So these are highly attractive businesses. And we have a track record of innovation, which shouldn't be overlooked when you're looking at investing in Allstate. Let's now discuss each component of the Transformative Growth plan in more detail and start on -- let's start on Slide 5 on expanding customer access. So customer access was expanded by integrating Esurance with a direct business sold under the Allstate brand. We used to go to market all direct -- most direct with Esurance, we did a little direct, but mostly through the agents on the Allstate brand. We put those together, which enables us to leverage Esurance's capabilities under a stronger brand. And it also gives us the ability to take the Esurance advertising spend and redirect it to the Allstate brand. With these operational changes, we expect overall direct sales to increase. We're also transforming Allstate's agent distribution by providing centralized services to increase efficiency and effectiveness. And agent compensation was shifted to growth from retention earlier this year, and we're piloting new agent models at a lower cost. Customer access has been further expanded with the pending acquisition of National General, which we expect to close in early 2021. We still have a few more regulatory approvals to get through. The independent agent channel, that's $125 billion market, and it's going to create growth opportunities by leveraging both National General's and Allstate's expertise. National General will become Allstate's independent agent platform and our 2 independent agent businesses be merged into National General. That will increase Allstate's total personal lines market share by 1 point when we close it, and it will create a top 5 competitor in the independent agent channel for personal lines. Let's move to Slide 6 to discuss how we're improving customer value with affordable, simple and connected products. So we're improving customer value with more competitive auto insurance prices. Lowering our cost structure enables us to do this while maintaining attractive margins. Our expense ratio is more than 2 points lower in 2020 than year-end 2018. When you have to exclude the expenses associated with helping customers with the pandemic, we did a Shelter-in-Place Payback of $1 billion, and we extended payment terms. So you can see that in the blue bars in the left. So expense ratio has been coming down. To improve customer value, we're also using sophisticated pricing with differentiated pricing by channel. And Allstate's industry-leading telematics capabilities will also further improve our capabilities. Our telematics connections give customers more accurate price. And we -- currently, our customer base in just telematics-based insurance is over $2 million. In addition, Arity collects data from other sources, so we get -- we have 22.9 million active connections that generate more than 1.3 3 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 09, 2020 / 3:00PM, ALL.N - Allstate Corp at Goldman Sachs Financial Services Conference (Virtual) billion scored trips per month. So cumulatively, we have over 385 billion miles of collected data, and we have advanced analytics that uses or connects with our insurance claims data, and we get driving scores for individuals so we can accurately price that risk. Those capabilities give us the ability to be the only major insurer to offer pay by the mile auto insurance product, we call it Milewise, which is very attractive to customers since you're driving less in the pandemic. It really resonates with people. So we have some advertising on this. You can see it's a guy in an island. And people -- it connects with them. But yes, why should I pay if I'm not driving? We're also redesigning products to provide more affordable, simple and connected services so that we can compete with all the new products coming into the marketplace. Moving to Slide 7. Let's discuss the third component on Transformative Growth, which is investing in technology and marketing. So we're enhancing the technology ecosystem for Allstate branded personal property-liability businesses to generate new digital capabilities, leverage our extensive data and reduce costs. That includes utilizing existing technology as well as new applications either branded or proprietary once we build. This technology stack will provide digital end-to-end customer journeys, enable us to redesign the products, our pricing and our services faster and lower our cost. Now the National General acquisition gives us the ability to use that technology platform to consolidate our independent agent Property-Liability businesses and grow without waiting to -- for the -- to get all the work done on the Allstate-branded product and then take it over the independent agent. So it gives us the ability to use 2 technology stacks, both of which are quite good, and move faster to growth. We think that will generate demand. So Transformative Growth also is going to -- we're going to invest more in marketing, and that will generate more demand for a broad range of products, including identity and phone protection. You can see down in the bottom. We show some pictures. We're starting to advertise and show that we have the best brand for those types of products. And at the same time, we're focusing our advertising and price in telematics for auto insurance. So that Transformative Growth plan is designed to increase market share in Personal and Property-Liability. If you move to Slide 8, Allstate has a track record of generating attractive returns. While we're investing in growth and expanding those protection businesses, we generate excellent cash returns for our shareholders. As I mentioned, we had adjusted -- we generated adjusted net income return on equity of 17.7% over the last 12 months, we returned $2.2 billion to common shareholders through the first 9 months of this year. That's a combination of share repurchases and dividends. Over the last year, you could see from this table, we reduced common shares outstanding by 6.4%. Book value per share increased to $82 from [2 82] and it increased 18% compared to the third quarter of last year, and that reflects both the money we made, increasing fixed income valuations, which more than offset the cash that we returned to shareholders. Allstate's stock valuation metrics, however, have not kept pace with the strong performance. So if you move to Slide 9, let's summarize why Allstate is an attractive investment opportunity. First, that we have a proven business model. We've got a really strong competitive position, and we deliver attractive returns. Our purpose is to empower customers with protection to achieve their hopes and dreams. And we've been doing that for 90 years and have built a substantial market presence. Transformative Growth that leverages our operating expertise, our analytic capabilities and technology investments enables to adapt and grow market share in Personal Property-Liability. We're also using digital technology to increase our efficiency. And in telematics and claims, we're far ahead of most of the competition. At the same time, Allstate's total addressable market is being expanded. The acquisition of National General puts us in a stronger position in $125 billion independent agent personal lines market. Allstate Protection Plans is growing rapidly, and that's a $35 billion consumer electronics and personal device protection market. Allstate Identity Protection, smaller market, it's only about $4 billion, but it's very nascent in terms of protecting people's identity. And then Arity and Avail strengthened our existing businesses while offering additional value-creation opportunities. So -- and as we just covered, the valuation does not appear to reflect this growth potential. With that, Yaron, we're up to you. QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS Yaron Joseph Kinar - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - Research Analyst Thank you, Tom, and I think we're going to invite Mark Nogal to join as well. So thanks for this presentation. Just one place I'd like to start with is on the auto insurance margins that I think have benefited quite significantly from reduced driving in 2020. As we look forward, do you expect any 4 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 09, 2020 / 3:00PM, ALL.N - Allstate Corp at Goldman Sachs Financial Services Conference (Virtual) structural change in driving behavior that goes beyond just the immediate COVID environment, such as people working from home or not commuting to large intercity offices? Or do you expect miles travel to return to "normal levels" again? Thomas Joseph Wilson - The Allstate Corporation - President, CEO & Director It's a good question because I do think -- I mean, it follows human behavior, right? So like whatever people do, consumers do, so do we. And they spend about 1/3 of their time driving to work, about 1/3 of their time driving goes to doing errands and stuff like that and about 1/3 of the time for leisure. And obviously, the first and third have come way down this year, and you've seen that, as you point out, in our combined ratio, which is in the mid-80s on auto insurance. Even the fact we gave our customers another $1 billion back. So we took $1 billion of underwriting income and gave it to customers because it was the right thing to do, and it's really helped us with customer set. When you look forward, we do think that the world is going to be different. How it's going to be different, it's always difficult to tell. Certainly, in the first quarter, you wouldn't expect people driving back to work and a lot of leisure travel coming back up. As you move throughout the year, we think it will come back, but it's not clear that it will come back to prior levels. Most of the companies I'm talking to expect to use a lot less real estate in the future. And as I like to say to our employees' commuting is way overrated. And you hope people are like, "Maybe I don't need to drive 5 days a week. Maybe it's 3 days a week. Maybe it's 2 days a week," particularly when you're looking at the -- we track this, of course, by hour. And so when you look at the peak driving hours, that's really where a lot of the accidents happen. And so when people don't drive to work, you have a disproportionate amount of reduction in accidents. And so we don't know exactly where it will go, but we think it's a good opportunity for us to take advantage of our expertise because then it changes geographically. You're in a rural area, you're probably still driving to work. Because a lot of those people are essential workers. And some subsegments of the population are essential workers, and they're still driving to work. There are other people, like probably most of people on this call, where you're not driving to work. So you have to look at it by risk class, by geography. And you have to adapt your pricing and your go-to-market strategy on a local basis. And so we have lots of data and analytics to do that. We do think it will come back up, but it's unclear as to where it will go. Yaron Joseph Kinar - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - Research Analyst Okay. And then if we shift gears to the Transformative Growth plan. I think it's part of the initiative the company is prioritizing new business generation from the Allstate agents and allowing them to focus more of their resources in the pursuit of new business. Can you maybe give a few examples of new tools that you're offering the agents to pursue that business? Thomas Joseph Wilson - The Allstate Corporation - President, CEO & Director Yes, yes. So let me go up a minute, and I'll come down. So we'd like to sell to anybody. Anyway they want to buy from us, they can buy from us. You want to buy online. You want to buy from a call center. So you want to buy from an agent. You want to buy from an independent agent. We just need to be there. So that's part of what expanding the customer access is. When you go into each of those, there are things we can do be better in each of those. And in the agent channel, we can be better in a variety of ways. So we -- first thing we've done is takes -- trying -- we're going to take service work out of the agent's offices so they're not spending time helping you change your address or add a car or somebody. They're really spending time selling stuff as opposed to low value added, oh, my payments late, can you see if the check and see if -- so moving to centralized services and more self-serve using digital technology, helps us free up time for them so that they can spend more time growing. At the same time, we're working on improving the way they go to market and lowering their cost structure. So that could be lowering the cost of leads and improving the effectiveness of our marketing and our lead generation so that when you call you got a higher probability of selling somebody something. We're rewarding them with that. We did change the compensation, so they get more money now for selling new business than they did for taking care of the old business. And that's because they're going to be doing less service work. So we don't need to pay them to do that. 5 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 09, 2020 / 3:00PM, ALL.N - Allstate Corp at Goldman Sachs Financial Services Conference (Virtual) We're also looking at newer, more longer-term models because there's -- I'm not sure we need as much real estate as we do. So we have 10,500 offices. I don't know if we need 10,500 offices in the future. And if we can take that expense out, our agents can -- would have -- not have that expense. They can either put that into growth or we can use it to reduce our customers' prices, which is key to our Transformative Growth is having a more competitive auto insurance price. Yaron Joseph Kinar - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - Research Analyst Got it. And as you're moving to a broader omnichannel platform, I think, on the flip side of that, you see the Allstate agent, their centricity to the overall distribution model maybe shrinking a bit. So how do you keep them motivated? How do you convince the incremental agent to actually join the platform when they're waiting in the overall -- sorry, may have been -- may have come down a little bit? Thomas Joseph Wilson - The Allstate Corporation - President, CEO & Director Well, first, you have to paint a vision of where you're going, and show them hope as to how you're going to get there. And then it comes down to how am I doing, how's my business doing. And there you are always worried about the long-term, where have I grown. So growth cures a lot of those issues. But you're right in terms of what we've been -- we started slowing, we actually stopped hiring agents in the existing agent model earlier this year. So if you look at our Allstate agent distribution capacity, total sales producers, it's down about 8% this year, so which explains why when you look at our new business, we've held up new business even though points of presence have come down a little bit because we didn't think that old model was going to be the new model. So what we have to do is help them transition from where they are today to where they will be in the future where they should be able to make a lot of money, but it's going to be lower cost for our customers. And it will be different, means you're going to have to sell more products. So you might have to be selling cellphone insurance. You got to sell more homeowners insurance business. And spend more time on selling and less time on servicing because selling creates more value for the company. So it's about painting that picture for them and then helping them get through it. So we're moving to 1 phone system so that we can help them service their customers better. So to the extent they can service customers better, they retain better, they make more money even though their renewal commissions are slightly lower. So it's a complicated effort. But between having that, expanding direct and getting into independent agent, we think we should be able to grow overall units. Yaron Joseph Kinar - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - Research Analyst Got it. And then so if we shift gears a little bit to the independent agency channel and the National General acquisition, I think you're expecting to close that next quarter? In the first quarter? Thomas Joseph Wilson - The Allstate Corporation - President, CEO & Director Yes. Yes, apparently in some regulatory proceeding, the date was given January 4. We'll just go with that one. Yaron Joseph Kinar - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - Research Analyst Works for me. And you touched on the rationale for it from the independent agency channel and growing, expanding in that channel. One of the questions that I still get from investors is around the nonstandard auto business that you get with National General, which is a business that Allstate exited a few years back. Can you maybe talk about how -- if and how that fits under the Allstate franchise? 6 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 09, 2020 / 3:00PM, ALL.N - Allstate Corp at Goldman Sachs Financial Services Conference (Virtual) Thomas Joseph Wilson - The Allstate Corporation - President, CEO & Director Yes, it's an understandable question, given our focus on -- as I would start, first, but there are no bad risk, there's only bad prices. So you can be a high-risk driver, and we just have to get the price right. We exited it because we didn't have the price right. And then what happened was the standard auto business actually expanded its risk class. Because as we got more sophisticated, what used to be nonstandard then started to fall into standard. So it didn't -- so nonstandard, you're right, is really higher-risk drivers. And we didn't really go there. But the National General acquisition is really about more than nonstandard. And I think because that's been their focus, that was how it was interpreted. But National General was basically -- we've not been successful in expanding an independent agent business. So we have an Allstate independent agent business. We have the Encompass business, which we bought from CNA. And we just haven't been successful. So the pitch to the National General people was, "Hey, you guys are really successful. You've done like 20 acquisitions in 10 years consolidating things in. We're in the independent agent business. I should be in the independent agent business because we know how to price cars, we know how fix cars, we know how to fix homes. Like we should be there, but we're not very good. Or we could be better. How about that? And I said, "So why don't you think about this as you're acquiring our business?" So we're going to buy -- the only difference here is our shareholders are going to take out your shareholders, but you, this team is going to acquire Encompass and Allstate independent agents. And we're going to roll that business into you, use your technology platform. We're going to bring to you preferred auto expertise, and we're going to bring in homeowners expertise. So you can take your nonstandard platform and expand it. So it was really about an overall independent agent channel focus. Now they're really good in nonstandard. And they make good profits in nonstandard. And so we're going to keep doing nonstandard through National General. And actually, right now, I think in 20 states we're selling National General nonstandard insurance to the Allstate agents. Because as I said, there's no bad risk, it's just a bad price. And we just were not good in that market. They were not as good in homeowners, and they're not as good in preferred auto. So we bring those together. And what it gives us is a real platform to go take share in the independent agent business. Yaron Joseph Kinar - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - Research Analyst Got it. And then maybe I'm trying to connect dots that don't -- or lines that don't exist. But as I think about the NatGen acquisition and the nonstandard capabilities that they do bring, and I think of the D2C efforts that you have and then the efforts to expand in the direct channel, can you use those nonstandard capabilities, enhanced capabilities, in the D2C channel? Is there relevance there? Is there a customer base that may be a little more weighted to nonstandard in D2C? Thomas Joseph Wilson - The Allstate Corporation - President, CEO & Director Your insights on D2C are correct. There tends to be a slightly higher-risk profile to D2C because they tend to be more price-sensitive and they're shopping more. So if you're paying $1,500 every 6 months, you look around a little more than if you're paying $600. And so you do see a higher mix that -- and we've served them well with Esurance. So about half of Esurance's business was no prior. That means no prior insurance, which tends to be indicative of a higher-risk driver. And so we have expertise there, but I do believe that National General's expertise combined with the Esurance's will give us a wider spectrum of people. So you spend all this money to get them to call you. Then when they call you, you'd like to have first a product. And then secondly, a really good price form. So we've had the product. This will give us the opportunity to have a more accurate price form in the nonstandard business. That said, I think there's great opportunity in the direct-to-consumer channel in standard auto and in homeowners. Yaron Joseph Kinar - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - Research Analyst Got it. And I do want to shift to that. Maybe before doing that, if I look at the Transformative Growth plan on the one hand, we talk about the post-COVID environment on the other hand, I guess if I try to think about what 2021, 2022 look like for Allstate, is that a market where Allstate is capturing market share and growing? Or is it a market that may actually be shrinking as a whole and where Allstate is essentially trying to stay in place through the Transformative Growth plan because premiums are coming in and because maybe fewer people are actually using cars? 7 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 09, 2020 / 3:00PM, ALL.N - Allstate Corp at Goldman Sachs Financial Services Conference (Virtual) Thomas Joseph Wilson - The Allstate Corporation - President, CEO & Director Yes. So I think it gets a high calculated market share. And so if you calculate market share on premiums, you'd get one answer. If you calculate market share on units, you would get another answer. So we're focused on growing units. We want to grow units, and we want to be held accountable for growing policies in force in the personal lines business. And because that -- we think that's the true measure of market share. When you get to premiums, lots of different things happen. So to the extent we are making our price more competitive if we're -- if that gives us more units, but we're getting less per unit, what investors and shareholders need to think about is, are we still making the right amount of money? And that's why we're lowering costs. So you'll see less increase in average price in the future, near term anyway, as we lower costs and we deal with the lower frequency because of the pandemic. So if you were to measure it on premiums, those companies that are raising their prices because they're not properly priced will look like they picked up market share. But in fact, they'll be putting themselves in a worse competitive position for long-term growth. So if you look at, for example, this year, when you look at premiums, our Shelter-in-Place Payback went through expenses. So the $1 billion went through expenses, as we talked about. The way GEICO did it, it went through premiums. So if you were to do market share on premiums, it will look this year like GEICO lost share in premiums. And I'm like, don't feel good about that if they got units up. Like we need to grow units. We grow units, that means we've got customers. We've got customers, we'll sell more stuff. We got customers who'll have more sustainable growth. Yaron Joseph Kinar - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - Research Analyst So if I take your comments, is it fair to think of that as saying that you do expect auto PIF to be up in '21? Thomas Joseph Wilson - The Allstate Corporation - President, CEO & Director We don't like, as you know -- I could try. We don't like to make projections. I think we're -- you saw this last quarter, we're going through a transition period where you sort of like -- and we're willing to accept that transition because we know long-term growth is up. So this quarter, you saw a -- not much of an increase. And investors were like, "Hey, what happened to all the growth?" And we're like, "Well, we're down in Allstate agent distribution capacity because that wasn't a good model. We're building new Allstate agent, a new Allstate agent model. We're expanding direct, but we had some transition in direct. And we're launching new marketing." So I'm not that worried about every quarter. What I want to make sure is we got these building blocks in place so that we'll get -- I don't know what will really happen in 2021. I mean, we have a plan, obviously, and we like to grow the business and improve that Transformative Growth works. But we're not giving out people like here's our forecast, and you can hold us to it. Yaron Joseph Kinar - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - Research Analyst Okay. Worth a try. Thomas Joseph Wilson - The Allstate Corporation - President, CEO & Director Yes. You're always good at it. Yaron Joseph Kinar - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - Research Analyst I think we're running close to the end of the time. I do want to sneak one probably last one on the direct channel. So I think direct, we've seen -- it's -- we've seen it take off in auto. I think we haven't seen as much success on the homeowners front in direct, not for Allstate specifically, but for the industry as a whole. I'm assuming it has to do with a more complex product with more variations in forms, they're also -- more of your net worth 8 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 09, 2020 / 3:00PM, ALL.N - Allstate Corp at Goldman Sachs Financial Services Conference (Virtual) is tied to your home. So you may want a little more agent support there. Do you think that can change over time? Do you think that the technologies and deposits you're bringing to the market today can take market share and build that product? Thomas Joseph Wilson - The Allstate Corporation - President, CEO & Director The answer to that is yes. We're -- our homeowner sales direct are way up this year, and we're liking that. I actually think it's less consumer-driven and more business model-driven. So GEICO and Progressive didn't really do much in homeowners. They got -- GEICO's got kind of a we'll sell somebody else's for you. Progressive has just started selling it, but their prices and the margins are now close to where ours are. Secondly, the advertising and homeowners doesn't work as well as it does in auto. Because you tend to look for your homeowners insurance when you -- something happens, get a new mortgage, buy a new house. And so in general, it's paid through your mortgage bill, and it's just not something you shop for all the time. So it's a different model. That said, we're down to, in some cases, we ask only 3 questions on homeowners, and we use all kinds of advanced analytics, the price and geo code and underwrite that house. And so -- and with all kinds of data pre-fills, I think the homeowners business through direct is an opportunity to grow. And we're really good. I mean that's a thing people -- you've always talk about us versus some of our competitors. I'm like, "Hey, put their homeowners business up against, we crush them." And there -- we're a good 10 to 15 points better, which -- a $6-plus billion as of (inaudible). Yaron Joseph Kinar - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - Research Analyst Well, I'd love to continue this, but unfortunately, our time is up. So Tom, Mark, thanks so much for your time and thoughtful answers. Thomas Joseph Wilson - The Allstate Corporation - President, CEO & Director Thank you. Yaron Joseph Kinar - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - Research Analyst Hopefully, we get to do this in person next year. Thomas Joseph Wilson - The Allstate Corporation - President, CEO & Director Soon enough. Yaron Joseph Kinar - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - Research Analyst Yes. All right. Thomas Joseph Wilson - The Allstate Corporation - President, CEO & Director Bye. Yaron Joseph Kinar - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - Research Analyst Bye. 9 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 09, 2020 / 3:00PM, ALL.N - Allstate Corp at Goldman Sachs Financial Services Conference (Virtual) DISCLAIMER Refinitiv reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes. In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized. THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES REFINITIV OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS. 2020, Refinitiv. All Rights Reserved. 13537505-2020-12-10T02:23:51.563 10 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 09, 2020 / 3:00PM, ALL.N - Allstate Corp at Goldman Sachs Financial Services Conference (Virtual)
REFINITIV STREETEVENTS EDITED TRANSCRIPT ATH.N - Athene Holding Ltd at Goldman Sachs Financial Services Conference (Virtual) EVENT DATE/TIME: DECEMBER 09, 2020 / 7:00PM GMT REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS James Richard Belardi Athene Holding Ltd. - Co-Founder, Chairman, CEO & CIO CONFERENCE CALL PARTICIPANTS Yaron Joseph Kinar Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - Research Analyst PRESENTATION Yaron Joseph Kinar - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - Research Analyst Good afternoon, everybody. Thanks for joining us. I'm Yaron Kinar, Goldman Sachs' insurance analyst. I'm very happy to have with us today, Athene's Chairman and CEO, Jim Belardi. Jim, thanks for joining us. Just one quick reminder for everybody in the audience. If you have questions, we do have the option to submit those through the box at the bottom of your screens and we'll try to get to them. With that, Jim, again, thanks for joining us this afternoon. QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS Yaron Joseph Kinar - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - Research Analyst Probably we can start with a high-level question. What kind of communication, what kind of messaging are you sharing with investors as we head into year-end? James Richard Belardi - Athene Holding Ltd. - Co-Founder, Chairman, CEO & CIO Well, I think, talking about 2020 for Athene, it's been the best year ever for Athene. If you measure that by organic growth, we have had a record year of maybe more than $25 billion this year. Inorganic growth, we did the largest block reinsurance deal ever, $29 billion of assets with Jackson National. So we're going to add $54 billion, $55 billion of new business this year at high returns, which is great. And we think the momentum will continue into next year. We expect 2021 to be a continuation of the great growth and high returns performance we had in 2020. And I think 2021 is really going to be the year that we want to maximize earnings. The Jackson transaction was closed in June. Big part of the value-add there was redeploying those assets into a better risk-return trade-off assets, and we're about 60% through that redeployment, ahead of pace, and expect to be done with that for the most part by mid next year, which will increase the yield on the portfolio when we're done. And we've been carrying outsized amounts of cash through most of 2020. And we think early next year, we'll be down to our more normal $2 billion of on-balance sheet cash, still supported by another $2 billion of off-balance sheet liquidity availability. But that deployment of cash will aid to earnings as well. And we expect to have a very good growth year in 2021 as well. So maximizing earnings, I think, is really the key message for us in '21. Yaron Joseph Kinar - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - Research Analyst Got it. That's a helpful overview. I guess, as I'm looking at the year ahead, where do you see the best opportunities for further capital deployment? And how does the low interest rate environment factor in? James Richard Belardi - Athene Holding Ltd. - Co-Founder, Chairman, CEO & CIO Yes. So we have 4 uses for our capital: organic growth, inorganic growth, holding capital to support ratings upgrades and then stock buybacks. They're all compelling. But if I were to rank them as far as how valuable they are in enhancing our franchise, I think organic is at the top of the list. 2 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 09, 2020 / 7:00PM, ATH.N - Athene Holding Ltd at Goldman Sachs Financial Services Conference (Virtual) This is why we're so excited about having such a great year in 2020 and we think it will continue in 2021. Ratings upgrades, we expect to get ratings improvement this year from all 3 agencies we have relationships with, which will lower our cost of funding in our funding agreement channel, increase our distribution over time in retail via better counterparties and the companies can do more business with us. So that's definitely franchise enhancing. And inorganic is the way we built the company from the beginning 11.5 years ago through acquisition. And we have a higher hurdle rate on returns inorganically than organic because I think it's a little less franchise enhancing than organic, but still quite compelling. And then fourth is stock buybacks, which the stock is trading unbelievably cheap. And our stock buyback program, I think, from inception, we've bought back about $1.3 billion, a big part of our market cap. But it's not franchise enhancing the way the other 3 uses of capital are. So it's our lower priority. But when you can get your high-teens or 20% returns with riskless execution by buying back your own shares, it's compelling as well, but it will be probably more measured and more opportunistic when the stock is particularly cheap. But those are the 4 uses of capital. Regarding the low interest rate environment, look, the results speak for themselves. Most of the 11.5 years Athene has been in business, there's been low interest rates. And we've grown book value on a compound annual growth rate since inception for 11.5 years at 15% a year, which is close to quadruple the industry average. So irrespective of the interest rate environment, and this is a very tough one, we're able to operate our business and achieve growth, earnings growth consistently and high returns. And we really think that our model works in any environment and the results speak for that. Yaron Joseph Kinar - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - Research Analyst Understood. And then if we look at the $2 billion of capital that I think you expect to generate in 2021, maybe talk about what portion of that comes from earnings and how much is from capital release from this runoff businesses? James Richard Belardi - Athene Holding Ltd. - Co-Founder, Chairman, CEO & CIO Yes. So I think the $2 billion ballpark is about half from statutory earnings on the existing book and half from runoff. I think it's kind of unusual for an insurance company to have stat earnings that are as close to as GAAP earnings, but that's the case for us. That's also a proxy for cash availability as well. So it's a real healthy sign for the company. But it's -- but yes, I mean it's the best way to generate capital, is through earnings and we're doing that. Yaron Joseph Kinar - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - Research Analyst Understood. And if we look at the 3 -- almost, what, $3.2 billion of excess equity that you have today, how much of that do you want to keep as just dry powder or as a buffer against stress events? How much are you willing to deploy? James Richard Belardi - Athene Holding Ltd. - Co-Founder, Chairman, CEO & CIO Yes. One of the great things about being associated with Apollo is its ability to raise capital on demand because it has so many happy, satisfied customers because of the returns that Apollo has generated for them. I'll slightly oversimplify it here, but when Apollo has an opportunity for its investors, repeat investors, the reply from the customer, in general, is, how much and when do you want it, which is fantastic for Athene because a lot of the opportunities that we've been raising capital for in conjunction with Apollo have been for Athene. And I think that in the financial services sector and certainly in insurance, the companies with the most capital are going to end up being the winners. And we expect to be the winner. Not to the detriment of others, but we just think that is a key metric that's going to carry the day, and it's carried the day as far as our growth from 0 to $190 billion in assets in 11.5 years and high return and we do nothing for just volume by itself. It has to be coupled with greater than mid-teens returns, and we've been able to achieve that. So very proud of that. The only thing we're not proud of is where the stock is trading now. So, yes. 3 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 09, 2020 / 7:00PM, ATH.N - Athene Holding Ltd at Goldman Sachs Financial Services Conference (Virtual) Yaron Joseph Kinar - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - Research Analyst Understood. And this has been an interesting year, right, not just from an interest rate perspective but COVID, hopefully, once in a lifetime event that we will never live through again. How has COVID played into this year's results? And has it impacted the company's positioning in the market? James Richard Belardi - Athene Holding Ltd. - Co-Founder, Chairman, CEO & CIO Yes. Really, it's -- the fact that we've been able to add $55 billion of business this year without really talking to any customer face-to-face in person, I think, is a real testament to our focused employees, our business model and our positioning in general. Look, yes, it's been tough on everybody. I think people -- I think, in general, workers are more efficient working side by side with the coworkers in person. That hasn't happened this year for a large part of the year. And so it shows the power of will of your employee to get things done the way we have. And I'm very proud of that. So our Des Moines office has been in the office in some way, shape or form since June. Now we're down to 50% as spikes and cases go up, but we expect to get back in close to 100% at the beginning of the year. In our other locations, it's a mixed bag, depending on the location of how much has been remote versus in person. But again, like in retail and others, I mean, the fact that we can do this without the normal in-person contact, I think, speaks to the power of the business model. Yaron Joseph Kinar - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - Research Analyst Got it. If we spend a little bit of time on inorganic growth and the opportunity set there, so when I look at the reinsurance market for annuities in general and specifically fixed index annuity transactions, it seems like there's greater willingness by the sellers today. But maybe more supply -- or I guess more reinsurers -- more supply of capital out there as well, more demand to buy, if you will. So how would you describe the competitive landscape here and Athene's positioning within that landscape as you try to avoid the overcrowded auctions? James Richard Belardi - Athene Holding Ltd. - Co-Founder, Chairman, CEO & CIO Yes. So we built the company, as I mentioned before, through M&A before we had ratings and organic growth up to $60 billion. Our business model is very powerful now when we execute like we did in 2020, like we did in 2018, both organically and inorganically. I think our competitive positioning has never been better. I think there are more private equity fueled companies entering the landscape. But I think one thing that has caused a lot of people to pay attention are some of the multiples of some deals that have been done in the insurance space. And I think that's opened the eyes of some potential sellers who've been on the sidelines, worried about valuation and saying, "Hey, if that deal can get done at that valuation, maybe we should reengage and see what we can get done." Most insurance companies in the ongoing restructuring in the space have something that they're not some type of business we're not committed to getting rid of. I mean, again, just key thing that they want to get rid of. And the combination of Athene and Apollo, another area why it's such a great partnership, between the 2 of us, we have an interest in something on every company that thinks theyre getting rid of business. Meaning some noncore business on most -- all insurance companies, legacy issues, if you will, between Athene and Apollo we have an interest in something on their balance sheets, which is why we're one of the first calls from sellers willing to restructure, get out of core business, free up capital to do some stock buybacks of their stock at depressed prices, it's all part of us being a solution provider that we're expanding to not just be on the liability side but also on the asset side. So we expect to do another inorganic deal in 2021. I won't be precise as to size and what it is, but the bigger and more complex the deals are, the less competition there is. And we have a track record of transacting in those spaces. Yaron Joseph Kinar - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - Research Analyst Okay. And I think you mentioned that with the valuations that we've seen, there has been more interest or more appetite, I guess, from the seller's perspective. On top of that, do you think that the low interest rate environment and anticipated implementation of LDTI accounting in 2023, would those be additional catalysts potentially for a wave of blocks coming to market? 4 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 09, 2020 / 7:00PM, ATH.N - Athene Holding Ltd at Goldman Sachs Financial Services Conference (Virtual) James Richard Belardi - Athene Holding Ltd. - Co-Founder, Chairman, CEO & CIO Yes, potentially. I think we hope that CEOs of other companies instead of waiting for rates to go up in the face of the Fed saying rates aren't going up for several years, are just saying, "Hey, is there a better time than now to transact, especially given the higher valuations we've seen in some transactions." So yes, I think that enters into it. The mark-to-market on the liability, you mentioned LDTI, we're a big proponent of that. We wish it would come sooner than is planned to come. It's been delayed a couple of times. We're ready for that. We stand by our reserving. We think it's very conservative, and I think more conservative than others. So we think we're going to fare better than others when that comes online. But you're right, that could be to get things done before that comes online, could be another impetus, and that's a good thing for prospects and positioning in the space. Yaron Joseph Kinar - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - Research Analyst Okay. And I think to date, you haven't had much of an appetite for variable annuities when looking at inorganic transactions. Is that something that you may reconsider at some point? Or is there just zero appetite for that? James Richard Belardi - Athene Holding Ltd. - Co-Founder, Chairman, CEO & CIO At Athene, there's zero appetite for that, but we've been disciplined and careful about the business we want. We want to generate net investment spread. That's not the case with the variable annuity business. But as I elaborated on the power of the partnership between Athene and Apollo, in the Voya transaction, Apollo stood up a new variable annuity company named Venerable that just made a significant acquisition with Equitable to provide a variable annuity solution for Voya's variable annuity business. So a life company that's in the business that wants to get out of the variable annuity business, Venerable, our sister company, is certainly a candidate to be involved in that transaction as long as Athene gets something that makes sense for its business model, a block of fixed indexed annuities, like it was in the Voya transaction, any kind of liability where we can generate net investment spread against. So yes, that's not for Athene, but it can be for our sister companies to facilitate a transaction that does make sense for Athene. Yaron Joseph Kinar - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - Research Analyst No, that makes sense. And then if we switch to organic growth for a bit. With interest rates being low, what's the outlook for fixed index annuities here? And maybe what kind of cap rates can Athene provide in this market? James Richard Belardi - Athene Holding Ltd. - Co-Founder, Chairman, CEO & CIO Look, we, for the first time ever in the second and third quarter, Athene is #1 issuer of fixed indexed annuities, not just in the IMO space, overall. We surpassed Allianz in the second and third quarter. We'll see what happens. And year-to-date through 9 months, we were #1. So we're providing solutions in that space for investors, retirement savings, planning. I frankly think that the fixed indexed annuity is a better retirement savings product than variable annuities given the principal protection for people in their retirement. I think they are more conservative, they don't want to put principal at risk. And there has been enhancements to our various product offerings. Bespoke indices has been a big driver of good performance for investors as well. So we expect that to continue in '21. We're very bullish on our retail annuity business and, hold on a second -- and -- excuse me a second. There we go, sorry. Yes, I mean we -- and we're -- our fastest-growing part of our retail annuity business in distribution are banks. And as we get higher ratings and even at our current rating, we're going to be bringing on more major banks into the mix that we've been underrepresented up to this point, and that will be a growth part of our business as well. 5 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 09, 2020 / 7:00PM, ATH.N - Athene Holding Ltd at Goldman Sachs Financial Services Conference (Virtual) Yaron Joseph Kinar - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - Research Analyst Okay. And then if we talk about PRTs, pension risk transfers, a bit. What part of the PRT market does Athene compete? And what's the total addressable market in that portion? James Richard Belardi - Athene Holding Ltd. - Co-Founder, Chairman, CEO & CIO Yes. I think it's -- we're in the U.S. We've done one deal in the U.K. It's actually even a bigger opportunity in the U.K. than it is in the U.S. right now. But I think so far, in the U.S., we are the #2 provider of PRT solutions. We're competing against the Crews and the Mets of the world, but we carved an inroad there. And I think we've provided some innovation as well. We did a big buy-in transaction with Bristol-Myers. And I think there's more of those type of solutions to come, but we've competed across the board, small to medium sized. We're focusing a little bit more on bigger size now. It's been a relatively quiet year for us in PRT. We did a deal in the first quarter. But in the fourth quarter, the volume in general of transactions is huge. And we've done 3 or 4 deals already in the fourth quarter of significant size. So it's really finishing out the year with a big bang. And we expect that to continue in '21 in the U.S., and we would like and expect to do more deals in the U.K. as well. But it's -- we don't pigeonhole us. We look at it, underwrite it and evaluate the longevity risk, et cetera. Whether it's a buy-in or buyout, we're flexible. Yaron Joseph Kinar - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - Research Analyst Okay. And what is it that you think about the fourth quarter that you saw this change in appetite or a greater willingness by Boards set to pursue pension risk transfers after a dry spell? James Richard Belardi - Athene Holding Ltd. - Co-Founder, Chairman, CEO & CIO Yes, I'm not sure I know, Yaron, whether it's trying to get things done before year-end, may have something to do with it. But it has definitely been a huge pipeline that it's not going to continue at that level, but certainly it's going to finish out the year at that level. Yaron Joseph Kinar - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - Research Analyst And I've always thought of PRTs as -- for the buyers as an area where you have a little more -- the biggest risk to manage there is credit risk. So in this environment, where maybe credit risk is a bit more elevated than it has been in the past, does that change the insurer appetite? Does it change your pricing? How do you go about it from a virus perspective? James Richard Belardi - Athene Holding Ltd. - Co-Founder, Chairman, CEO & CIO Well, I think, if we try and boil down the PRT business the way we boil down the other businesses, can we generate net investment spread on a predictable basis in size, emphasizing downside protection if there's longevity risk in these things, you look at the composition of the employee base, are they retirees? Are they active? Are they deferreds, et cetera? And there's different mortality risk on each of those. And we got a high-quality group of actuaries that have a lot of experience in this area, both from at Athene but also in previous lives and careers in the life insurance industry. I think the credit risk, at least the way we look at it, on the asset side is what we're going to do with the money that we get and what assets are we going to buy, which we take in spades every day, even though I will say, we are underweight credit risk in general and high-yield risk in our asset portfolio compared to the industry, and that's by design. We've not gone down junior in capital stats on the asset side to get more yield. Instead, we've focused on structured securities with subordination below us and is a cushion for us, but staying in the investment-grade senior tranches of CLOs, asset backs, RMBS, et cetera, as a way to play the fixed income sector in the half that we don't have of our portfolio in corporates. 6 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 09, 2020 / 7:00PM, ATH.N - Athene Holding Ltd at Goldman Sachs Financial Services Conference (Virtual) Yaron Joseph Kinar - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - Research Analyst Okay. And then if we shift gears to flow reinsurance. Can you discuss your outlook for flow reinsurance deposits in '21, maybe the primary drivers? James Richard Belardi - Athene Holding Ltd. - Co-Founder, Chairman, CEO & CIO Yes. So we had a record year in flow reinsurance for us in '20. Our relationship and partnership with Mass Mutual has been fantastic. They've been in the Fidelity distribution network that we weren't in away from Mass Mutual, high-quality company, a great partner. Fidelity platform is all done digitally, which has worked very well, obviously, in the pandemic. And so we're optimistic about that being a great year for us next year as well. And we're adding additional counterparties, which is what we typically do. For the first time in '20, we also went outside the U.S. in flow reinsurance. We have a partnership with a Japanese company, a well-known company. And we've been involved there for most of the year, and it has gone very, very well, exceeded our volume and return expectations, and we're optimistic about adding other counterparties in Japan as well, which is the second largest annuity market in the world to the U.S. So that's exciting for us, and I think that's going to be a big part of the story next year as well. Yaron Joseph Kinar - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - Research Analyst Okay. And talk about regulation, well that we have a new administration coming in January of next year. Do you expect any new initiatives around best interest, commission, sales practices and the like in the annuities market that could impact Athene? James Richard Belardi - Athene Holding Ltd. - Co-Founder, Chairman, CEO & CIO I don't know. I think there's been some rumblings of whether the new Department of Labor law that was banning about in the past could resurrect. I think there needs to be some changes to that proposed DOL law that was killed, particularly regarding the plaintiffs bar kind of adjudicator of disputes. I don't think that would have been healthy. But there are some very good parts to the proposed plan in about best interest of clients and commission regulation, et cetera, that we were in favor of, and we were ready to comply before it got killed. So if they were going to resurrect, we're ready to go. And I think it actually benefits -- compliance with that benefits the bigger players that have the resources to really be ready for that. We're one of the biggest and ready. And so we -- could actually lead to more market share for us if that were implemented. And then higher tax rates in general have been talked about with the new administration, which we're already very administrative and tax efficient. Our tax and efficiency advantage over others would only be enhanced as the corporate tax rates went up because we would only have our taxes go for a portion of that full amount. And the demand for our products to the extent individual tax rates would increase, would increase as well since our products are tax deferred and may be more valuable in that environment. So I'm, in general, not a fan of taxes going up. But if it did, I think we're well positioned. Yaron Joseph Kinar - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - Research Analyst Understood. If we shift gears again, the sense of the investment portfolio. I think one investor perception of Athene is that, that its investment portfolio is riskier than other life insurers. Is there validity to that concern in your mind? James Richard Belardi - Athene Holding Ltd. - Co-Founder, Chairman, CEO & CIO No. So we were the first company, to my knowledge, in the insurance industry to be public at the beginning of the pandemic about the quality of our investment portfolio, expected losses and around the hot topic asset categories like CLOs. We posted a summary of our CLO portfolio for everyone to see on our website. We were out front in saying, even in a repeat of Lehman, based on all the subordination we have in our portfolio 7 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 09, 2020 / 7:00PM, ATH.N - Athene Holding Ltd at Goldman Sachs Financial Services Conference (Virtual) and how well underwritten it was to downside protection, in a repeat of Lehman, we would not incur $0.01 of loss. We stand by that. That's still what's happening. We've not incurred $0.01 loss in our CLO portfolio. And in fact, through the 9 months of this year right through the teeth of the pandemic, our other than temporary impairments on our portfolio has been 2 basis points. Even better than I would have expected, and I was pretty optimistic. So we continue to have more downgrade risk than permanent impairment risk in our portfolio. And we have had some downgrades in CLOs, in asset backs, which is one of the reasons we hold so much excess capital to absorb them. And we still have RBC ratios on a consolidated basis, including the parent capital, 475% after whatever downgrades have happened this year. Capital continues to be a huge strength of ours. I think people or some investors who don't know Athene that well think because we outperformed on the yield side, on the asset side, even after fees, by the way, that means we have to be taking more risk. But I think it's a different type of underwriting philosophy. We don't go down the credit spectrum to high yield to get the yield. We do it through staying senior with subordination the lowest in structured securities. Yaron Joseph Kinar - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - Research Analyst Okay. Now I guess, other than just going through a stressed environment like we have in at least the first half of 2020 from a credit perspective, is there anything else that you can do or show that needs to happen in order to get investors to come around and come to that conclusion? James Richard Belardi - Athene Holding Ltd. - Co-Founder, Chairman, CEO & CIO The best way I know to get -- to unlock the value in the stock price and get it up to an appropriate valuation, which is a long way from that, is consistently growing GAAP earnings. And hence my opening comments about, we really want to maximize earnings in 2021 for Athene. And eventually, valuations would take care of itself. And -- but also suffice to say to investors, in general, Apollo, our permanent partner, side-by-side with us, being frustrated with where our stock is trading and just talking about different ways that we could unlock value and what's the best course of action, if that was easy, we'd already have done it. But we're not just going along and keeping our heads down and saying eventually this will happen. We're going to be proactive in looking at things we can do to really unlock value because it's hugely important and needs to happen. And so far, the value is not being recognized. I guess the earnings power of Athene, growth power of Athene, the book value accretion of Athene at 4x industry has not been recognized in the market, and we need to get them to recognize it, and that's one of our goals. Yaron Joseph Kinar - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - Research Analyst Got it. And I think you touched on it earlier, the idea that if Athene is generating better investment results, some investors take that to mean that because it has a higher yield that it takes more credit risk, which is not the case. So how do you achieve the higher yield? James Richard Belardi - Athene Holding Ltd. - Co-Founder, Chairman, CEO & CIO Just like I said. It's instead of just -- without taking more credit risk and going and buying into high yield, we're underweight high yield versus the industry. We focused on investment-grade opportunities in CLOs, in RMBS, essentially from the start of Athene, in asset-backed. Our alt portfolio has been more resilient than others. We haven't invested in the past in traditional private equity and hedge funds. It's really been more fixed income-oriented alternatives with pull-to-par assets and that portfolio will underperform when the equity markets are doing very well and outperform when they're not doing well. And that's exactly been the history, but still generating 10% to 12% per year consistently over the 12 years we've been in business. So I think it's continuing to produce the results we're talking about, showing that we're not generating losses. And they're not -- the losses aren't coming no matter what the environment. The other thing I'd say is I think we have to break the correlation between the 10-year treasury yield and our stock performance. There's no reason there should be that correlation. Our performance has been, for the most part, in a very low yield environment. And so that's just -- it doesn't make sense to me why we are that correlated with the 10-year treasury given how attractive the performance has been. 8 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 09, 2020 / 7:00PM, ATH.N - Athene Holding Ltd at Goldman Sachs Financial Services Conference (Virtual) Yaron Joseph Kinar - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - Research Analyst Can you maybe remind us what is the income statement and balance sheet sensitivity to interest rates? James Richard Belardi - Athene Holding Ltd. - Co-Founder, Chairman, CEO & CIO Well, it depends on how you monitor that or measure it. I mean we're closely matched duration wise between our assets and liabilities now. We've always passed all cash flow testing scenarios in [Spades], which is an insurance company convention that's required. You get no credit for all your current capital. It's the existing match book of assets and liabilities that has to generate positive profits over a long-term horizon. And we passed all those scenarios with cushion and always have since we started. Having said that, we do have 20% of our portfolio in floating rate securities, and those yield more income when rates are higher, no doubt about it. We also have those in our portfolio because if our and as our blocks of business on the liability side age and eventually come out of surrender charge protection, in a higher rate environment, they may be more apt to surrender and move to other products, hopefully, Athene's, maybe others. And in a higher rate environment, it would be nice to have the higher income from the floaters. So it's a bit of disintermediation protection as well to have those floaters on the asset side. But in this yield environment, it has cost us income. Yaron Joseph Kinar - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - Research Analyst All right. Can you talk about investment opportunities and deployments? So you mentioned the Jackson National portfolio that you're still in the process of redeploying. How much of an earnings lift -- or incremental earnings lift does that continuous redeployment offer you into 2021? James Richard Belardi - Athene Holding Ltd. - Co-Founder, Chairman, CEO & CIO Yes. So 2 things. So we closed the Jackson deal in June of '20. Sold some of the treasuries. And so from the time post selling of those treasuries until now, we've raised the yield on that portfolio of, call it, $29 billion of assets by 100 basis points. And to meet our originally underwritten returns, we need to raise it another 100 between now and when we're done. And that second 100 is going to come from us allocating some private credit assets in there, high-grade alpha assets and some alts that we really haven't allocated in there yet. And so we're going to get in the vicinity of what we underwrote to achieve the returns that we underwrote and we think we'll be close to what we've done there by midyear. Yes, that will be a -- I won't be precise on what the uplift that will be, but it will be an uplift. Reducing our cash down of the $2 billion level will be an uplift to earnings. And the other thing I'd say, when you asked how we generate yields on the asset side when we take a credit risk is, I don't know of another company that's been more committed and more emphasized sourcing high-grade alpha, private credit, asset origination platforms with flow than Apollo. And Athene side-by-side with Apollo has been the beneficiary of that. We announced a value-add transaction with a REIT, MFA earlier in the year. We did a big deal with a Middle Eastern company credit tenant lease in the middle of the year. We just announced the Donlen transaction that we hope to be complete, the corporate part of the purchase fleet where we keep the management team in place, provide capital on an ongoing basis that will add to additional asset flow for us, the bridge financial fleet. We've done some the secured airline deals with United and Delta. We have very low aircraft exposure that's not secured. So those things all add up when you're doing things like that in size to stem the continuing eroding yield environment and provide value-add for our shareholders. Yaron Joseph Kinar - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - Research Analyst Jim, this was incredibly informative. I thank you for your time. I wish we could continue. But unfortunately, we're out of time. So thanks again, and hopefully, we get to host you in person next year. 9 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 09, 2020 / 7:00PM, ATH.N - Athene Holding Ltd at Goldman Sachs Financial Services Conference (Virtual) James Richard Belardi - Athene Holding Ltd. - Co-Founder, Chairman, CEO & CIO Yes, I'd love to do it, Yaron. Thanks for the conversation. I enjoyed it. Yaron Joseph Kinar - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - Research Analyst Thank you. James Richard Belardi - Athene Holding Ltd. - Co-Founder, Chairman, CEO & CIO Bye-bye. Yaron Joseph Kinar - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - Research Analyst Take care. DISCLAIMER Refinitiv reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes. In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized. THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES REFINITIV OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS. 2020, Refinitiv. All Rights Reserved. 13537507-2020-12-10T02:36:23.310 10 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 09, 2020 / 7:00PM, ATH.N - Athene Holding Ltd at Goldman Sachs Financial Services Conference (Virtual)
REFINITIV STREETEVENTS EDITED TRANSCRIPT SRE.N - Sempra Energy Announces Integrated Transactions To Form New Infrastructure Platform Conference Call EVENT DATE/TIME: DECEMBER 04, 2020 / 5:00PM GMT OVERVIEW: Co. provided an update that earlier this week, it has announced a series of integrated transactions designed to advance its strategy by organizing infrastructure businesses under a common growth platform known as Sempra Infrastructure Partners. REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS Jeffrey Walker Martin Sempra Energy - Chairman, President & CEO Manuela Molina Peralta Sempra Energy - VP of IR Trevor Ian Mihalik Sempra Energy - CFO & Executive VP PRESENTATION Operator Good day, and welcome to the Sempra Energy Infrastructure Business Update Call. Today's conference is being recorded. At this time, I would like to turn the conference over to Nelly Molina. Please go ahead. Manuela Molina Peralta - Sempra Energy - VP of IR Good morning, and welcome to Sempra Energy's Infrastructure Business Update Call. A live webcast of this teleconference and a slide presentation is available on our website under the Investors section. From our management team, I am joined today by Jeff Martin, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Trevor Mihalik, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. Before starting, I'd like to remind everyone that we'll be discussing forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Actual results may differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statements we make today. The factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially are discussed in the company's most recent 10-K and 10-Q filed with the SEC. Please refer to the presentation slides that accompany this call. I'd also like to mention that the forward-looking statements contained in this presentation speak only as of today, December 4, 2020, and the company does not assume any obligation to update or revise any of these forward-looking statements in the future. Lastly, because we are still in the filing period of our tender offer in Mexico and because we are also in the process of filing our S-4 with the SEC, we have been advised to forego our normal question-and-answer session following management's prepared remarks. With that, please turn to Slide 4, and I will hand the call over to Jeff. Jeffrey Walker Martin - Sempra Energy - Chairman, President & CEO Thanks a lot, Nelly, and thank you all for joining us today. Many of you have heard me speak from time to time about our continued focus on optimizing our portfolio consistent with our North American strategy. That's why, earlier this week, we were pleased to announce a series of integrated transactions designed to advance our strategy by organizing our infrastructure businesses under a common growth platform. The purpose of this call, therefore, is to take the time to explain the business rationale for these transactions and why these efforts are expected to enhance shareholder value. Once these transactions are completed, we believe this new growth platform will be well positioned to be a leader in the global energy transition, and we expect to highlight the overall franchise value of our North American infrastructure assets. Finally, in combination, we expect these transactions to be accretive to Sempra's earnings per share. Now please turn to the next slide. Since 2018, you'll recall that we've been focused on investing in the most attractive markets in North America and, particularly, in T&D like infrastructure with a lower risk profile and strong earnings visibility. In so doing, this strategy has allowed us to narrow our geographic footprint by executing on roughly $27 billion in enterprise-wide transactions, benefit from improved fit and focus within our portfolio, reduce operating and financial risk, all with the goal of delivering improved financial returns and more visible growth. 2 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 04, 2020 / 5:00PM, SRE.N - Sempra Energy Announces Integrated Transactions To Form New Infrastructure Platform Conference Call Today, we're focused on 2 business lines, utilities and infrastructure. These are complementary investments backed by regulated rates of return on one hand and long-term contracted cash flows on the other. Please turn to the next slide. Within our North American infrastructure business, we have 2 franchises: IEnova and Sempra LNG. Over the last 2 years, we've seen the growth capital in these 2 businesses converge around the landmark Energa Costa Azul, or ECA, LNG project, which you'll recall that we sanctioned just last month. Thus far, it's the only LNG export project in the world to reach FID this year, and I actually think it reflects favorably on our team's ability to continue developing world-class projects, even against a tough economic backdrop. By simplifying the ownership structure of Sempra LNG and IEnova under Sempra Infrastructure Partners, we believe it better positions us to develop large-scale integrated LNG projects, such as ECA, and cross-border renewable power and transmission investments, such as our Energia Sierra Juarez, or ESJ, renewable complex. We also believe this new streamline platform will offer notable scale benefits and portfolio synergies. Overall, it's our expectation that the integrated transactions being discussed today will create value over the long run for Sempra Energy and the shareholders of IEnova who elect to tender their shares for Sempra stock. Please turn to the next slide. Sempra's existing infrastructure platform is well positioned to capitalize on several exciting opportunities that are worth mentioning. With respect to natural gas, we have a competitive position that allows us to export natural gas both to Mexico and global markets. We also have a competitive position in renewables, particularly in the cross-border region right here in Southern California. That's why with the formation of Sempra Infrastructure Partners, we think we can combine the strengths of both companies and improve our ability to capture incremental growth. On the LNG front, we think we have an industry-leading platform with approximately 12 million tonnes per annum of operating assets generating robust cash flows today, and we're really excited about the prospects of our development projects that are geographically advantaged along the Gulf and Pacific Coast. Additionally, our ownership of 11 out of 20 U.S.-Mexico cross-border pipelines provides competitive access to the U.S. Southwest energy and capacity markets. It's also notable that these high-pressure transmission lines are backed by long-term dollar-denominated contracts. Lastly, there are also strategic cross-border opportunities in the clean energy space with approximately 1 gigawatt of wind and solar projects in our portfolio today and nearly 3 gigawatts of wind, solar and battery development projects in our pipeline. Next, please turn to the next slide where Trevor will walk you through some examples of our major development efforts. Trevor Ian Mihalik - Sempra Energy - CFO & Executive VP Thanks, Jeff. The expansion of our LNG business in Mexico creates significant overlap between Sempra LNG and IEnova. As Jeff mentioned earlier, Sempra LNG and IEnova have embarked on a $2.4 billion investment in Baja California. This is split between $2 billion at ECA LNG and $400 million for an associated gas pipeline expansion. We're eager to capitalize on the synergies associated with Sempra Infrastructure Partners' development capabilities, operating experience and overlapping asset footprint. In addition to ECA LNG, this combined franchise will be well positioned to execute on the significant opportunity set of wind, solar and battery projects in Mexico. Please turn to Slide 9. IEnova is one of the leading developers of renewable energy projects in Mexico. With its existing footprint, knowledge of the regulatory landscape and demonstrated ability to develop projects with public and private off-takers, IEnova is well positioned to capture new opportunities in Mexico, perhaps none more so than the ESJ renewable complex that Jeff mentioned previously. One of the advantages of our renewables development portfolio is our existing high-voltage electric transmission assets, which are also geographically advantaged to connect quality renewable resources in Mexico to demand for renewables in Southern California. Please turn to the next slide. Under the current structure, IEnova is a publicly traded company, with Sempra being the majority owner and an approximate ownership interest of 70%. Upon receiving the required regulatory approvals, Sempra intends to launch a stock-for-stock exchange 3 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 04, 2020 / 5:00PM, SRE.N - Sempra Energy Announces Integrated Transactions To Form New Infrastructure Platform Conference Call offer to acquire IEnova's publicly traded shares. This is intended to increase Sempra's ownership from approximately 70% to up to 100%. To facilitate the transaction, we plan to list Sempra Energy shares in the form of exchange shares on the Mexican Stock Exchange. In conjunction with this exchange, Sempra LNG and IEnova will combine to create a new business unit, Sempra Infrastructure Partners. Please turn to the next slide. The final step will involve a sale of a noncontrolling interest in the new partnership. Our goal is to align our ownership with a like-minded investor that recognizes the value of our infrastructure platform. We'll also privilege certainty of a timely close as an important consideration. To execute on this process successfully, various criteria have been established, including executing with a view towards growing EPS over the long term, improving business strength and scale, maintaining or improving the existing credit profile and enhancing support for LNG and growth in renewables and, depending on the level of equity sold, looking to sustain or even grow existing cash flows. Please turn to Slide 12. Here, we have included a demonstrative time line of expected key activities. The exchange offer for IEnova stock requires IEnova Board approval, along with regulatory and other customary approvals. As we move forward with the integrated transaction process, including receiving the necessary approvals, we're targeting to complete the series of transactions by the end of the first quarter 2021. Please turn to the final slide. By creating a new integrated infrastructure platform with a primary focus on LNG, this entity will have the financial scale not only to independently raise capital to fund organic growth projects, but also benefit from operational synergies and a management team with strategic capabilities and strong industry expertise. Additionally, a combined business allows us to more efficiently reinvest cash flows in and allocate capital to projects with higher expected returns. And with that, this concludes our prepared remarks. Thank you all for joining today, and I hope everyone continues to stay safe and healthy. Please feel free to reach out to our IR team with any clarifying questions. Operator This concludes today's call. Thank you for your participation. You may now disconnect. DISCLAIMER Refinitiv reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes. In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized. THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES REFINITIV OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS. 2020, Refinitiv. All Rights Reserved. 13537529-2020-12-04T19:12:29.703 4 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 04, 2020 / 5:00PM, SRE.N - Sempra Energy Announces Integrated Transactions To Form New Infrastructure Platform Conference Call
REFINITIV STREETEVENTS EDITED TRANSCRIPT LNC.N - Lincoln National Corp at Goldman Sachs Financial Services Conference (Virtual) EVENT DATE/TIME: DECEMBER 09, 2020 / 1:40PM GMT REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS Dennis Robert Glass Lincoln National Corporation - President, CEO & Director CONFERENCE CALL PARTICIPANTS Yaron Joseph Kinar Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - Research Analyst PRESENTATION Yaron Joseph Kinar - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - Research Analyst Good morning, everybody. Thanks for joining us for our second interim session of the day. I'm Yaron Kinar, the Insurance Analyst at Goldman joined today by Dennis Glass, President and CEO of Lincoln Financial. Just one housekeeping item. If you have any questions, there is a submit question box at the bottom of your screen that you can use. Dennis, thanks so much for joining us this morning. QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS Yaron Joseph Kinar - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - Research Analyst So maybe we can start off with a high-level question. The macro environment, can you maybe talk about the challenges and opportunities that presents? Dennis Robert Glass - Lincoln National Corporation - President, CEO & Director Yaron, happy to do that, and thank you for having us here. My time is 6:30 in the morning. So I'm glad to be with all of you East coasters and others around the country early today. Yes, on macro, overall, I think it's pretty optimistic for the life industry. And let me start with the most important issue right now. And the most positive issue we're seeing in the United States and across the world is the potential for very quick vaccine distribution and effectiveness, which, as we all know, is terrific from a health perspective. It's also an opportunity to see some growth in the economy. I think between now and when the vaccine becomes widely distributed, we'll need some intermediate government support. But combining those 2 things, I think we have an opportunity in 2021 for both some economic growth and a little more buoyancy in the equity markets. So from our industry perspective, 2 immediate consequences of that: one, investment results should be better. And we all thought that the bond downgrades and investment losses might be bigger this year, but they weren't. They're pretty benign. So that is a good continuation into 2021, again, with the effectiveness of the vaccine and intermediate government support. The other positive for the industry coming out of that, of course, will be uplift in assets under management and fees on assets under management are pretty important earnings component for the industry. So hopefully, good economy in 2021, continued good equity market results and the consequences of less investment, challenge and more fees on assets under management. Now long term, the bigger issue for the industry, and we all know this, is low interest rates. And even with a rising economy, I don't think many people, certainly, we at Lincoln, don't expect any explosive upward trend in interest rates, maybe a modest trend up in the next couple of years. 2 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 09, 2020 / 1:40PM, LNC.N - Lincoln National Corp at Goldman Sachs Financial Services Conference (Virtual) So what does that mean for the industry? And what are the attributes of companies that can prosper in a low interest rate environment? I think Lincoln is one of those companies that can prosper in a low interest rate environment. And I'd point to a couple of things. First, interest rates are affecting product design quite a bit. Historically, a lot of the guaranteed products relied on strong general account investment returns and that provided stronger guarantees for a given premium. Well, with low interest rates, we have to change our perspective on how to get good consumer value. And so with that comment, companies that have broad existing portfolios and have demonstrated an ability to pivot with new products that resonate with consumers are in good position, even though rates are low, and there will be some value proposition changes. If you have innovative product and experience, you're going to do fine. The second thing is, of course, as you (technical difficulty), you need very strong distribution, and companies that have a strength in distribution, and again, Lincoln would be one of those, I think, have an opportunity to excel in bringing new market -- new products to the market and even better deliver on the products that are already in the marketplace. The second issue associated with interest rates is spread compression and all of us are going to see some spread compression over the next couple of years. So again, a trait of companies that can prosper even with that earnings drag from spread compression are those companies who have demonstrated ability to lower their cost on an ongoing basis. And so that would be another trait. The final thing is if you have a strong balance sheet, that's helpful. Again, a good solid quality investment portfolio. That's another trait that will be important. So bottom line, I think that what we've seen over the last 9 months that we're seeing some evidence already. Is that the products that the industry brings to market to provide a financial peace of mind and financial protection for everyday Americans. That's going to continue to be positive. And actually, I think, probably an uplift in demand as consumers have a keener view of risk and how our products can protect them. So overall, some challenges, but I think good companies will continue to prosper. Yaron Joseph Kinar - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - Research Analyst Right. Thank you for that. Maybe we can continue down the path of low interest rates and their impact and maybe more specific in near-term ways. So I think the company has talked about expecting roughly 4% impact to EPS from spread compression in the near term and in the current rate environment. So I guess the first question that comes to mind for me is how confident is the company that it will be able to achieve its 8% to 10% EPS growth target even in the face of this elevated spread headwind? Dennis Robert Glass - Lincoln National Corporation - President, CEO & Director Yes. Yaron, again, for the reasons I've just mentioned, I'm pretty optimistic long term about our industry and its prospects, again, not without challenge. But specifically, on our business model's ability to generate 8% to 10% EPS growth over the long term, I'm quite confident. Now in the short term, let me talk about a couple of things. First, the need to redesign products, probably in the short run, the growth for Lincoln coming out of new business, which we typically talk in terms of being 2% to 4% of the total of 8% to 10%. That 2% to 4% might be a little bit lower as new products take hold, and we begin to regain our top line sales growth. That should take place over a reasonably short intermediate period. So a little bit less of our 8% to 10% in the near term coming from new business. On the other hand, we can put more emphasis on cost control. And we typically talk cost of margin. We typically speak in terms of maybe 1% of our 8% to 10% coming from that. I think in the intermediate term, that's going to be more like 1% to 3%. And so the combination of a little slower growth from new business will be offset by cost control and further reduction in cost. And then the interplay of spread compression and equity market growth, we'll have to see how that turns out. But typically, that's plus 2% for us of the 8% to 10%. And then finally, share buybacks. And I think share buybacks, we're in a strong position to continue our program of share repurchases. And again, in our 8% to 10%, that's usually been 1% to 2%, 2% to 3% at this lower share price. Maybe it'd be a little stronger than it's been in the past. 3 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 09, 2020 / 1:40PM, LNC.N - Lincoln National Corp at Goldman Sachs Financial Services Conference (Virtual) So long term, 8% to 10%, I think our strategy and business model can produce. In the short run, some of the levers that we have to get there will have to change, but we've demonstrated an ability to execute, particularly on cost over the last decade. So I'm confident that we will continue to execute. Yaron Joseph Kinar - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - Research Analyst Got it. And then another question that comes to mind is when will yields on the rolling off maturities be low enough that we would start to see the spread headwind abating even if new money rates remain where they are today? Dennis Robert Glass - Lincoln National Corporation - President, CEO & Director Yes. We have seen a significant reduction in spread compression over the last year or 2. I expect, over the next 3 years, that it will begin to creep down incrementally every year, but I think we've got some level of spread compression reducing our run rate for the next several years. Yaron Joseph Kinar - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - Research Analyst Okay. And then one item, I think you have one trigger, you can pull to offset some of that would be lowering crediting rates. So how much room do you have to do that? Dennis Robert Glass - Lincoln National Corporation - President, CEO & Director Yes. That's a business-by-business answer. Let me just -- in-force management, which includes lowering credit rates, includes other strategies, taken together that can help mitigate spread compression. But even with that, I still see some spread compression occurring for the next couple of years. Yaron Joseph Kinar - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - Research Analyst And then also connected to the low interest rate environment. I think the company lowered the long-term interest rate assumption by 50 basis points this year at 3% in the third quarter. What should investors expect as we look into kind of year-end statutory cash flow testing with regards to the impact of the low interest rate environment? Dennis Robert Glass - Lincoln National Corporation - President, CEO & Director Yes. We've talked about a $100 million to $200 million reserve increase may happen or may be needed in the event that the 10-year is consistently at 50 basis points. The way the subtest work, the answer to 2020 is baked in pretty much with respect to cash flow testing. And so at the end of 2020, we don't see any pressure on statutory reserves. And again, this $100 million, $200 million may develop towards the end of 2021. But in addition to interest rates, sort of the curve of the reserve increase is going to start coming down. So let's just stick with $100 million to $200 million, maybe in 2021, maybe not if the 10-year is at 50 basis points. Yaron Joseph Kinar - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - Research Analyst Okay. And is that curve of reserve increases that you mentioned? Is that the reason that, that $100 million or $200 million actually came down quite a bit last year from -- I think it was well above that prior to that? 4 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 09, 2020 / 1:40PM, LNC.N - Lincoln National Corp at Goldman Sachs Financial Services Conference (Virtual) Dennis Robert Glass - Lincoln National Corporation - President, CEO & Director Yes. We have been talking about $600 million to $700 million, Yaron. And yes, that's exactly what happened is the reserve build began to shift, and we're going to continue to see that. Yaron Joseph Kinar - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - Research Analyst Okay. Dennis Robert Glass - Lincoln National Corporation - President, CEO & Director There may be another dimension of that -- to that answer, but I think that's the majority of it. Yaron Joseph Kinar - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - Research Analyst Okay. And then maybe shifting gears a little bit. I think on the last earnings call, you talked about expecting sales to accelerate throughout the organization over the course of 2021. Is there a way to parse how much of the sales pressure that comes from the -- that we're currently seeing in 2020, how much of that comes from the absence of the face-to-face meetings versus the lower interest rate environment? Dennis Robert Glass - Lincoln National Corporation - President, CEO & Director Yes. Let me take the last question first. It was the last point, lower interest rates. Almost all of the sales decline that we've seen in the individual lines, Annuity and Life relate to us -- we have this threepronged top line program called Reprice, Shift and Add. So in 2020, most of what we're doing is repricing all of our products, most of the big changes are in the individual businesses. And we were a step ahead of the industry. And so a combination of increasing the cost to the consumer by increased premiums, lowering benefits, along with being a step ahead of the competition on those changes are what principally in individual life annuity business caused a slowdown in sales. I will tell you that as we leave 2020, all of our repricing has been completed and the marketplace from a competitive position is mostly caught up with us. So the good news is as we enter 2021, the products that we're selling in the marketplace are, for the most part, achieving the return on capital necessary to back those products. So I find that to be a very powerful entry point, if you will, into 2021. There's a little in the 2 workplace businesses, RPS and Group. There's a little bit of sort of COVID-induced delay of decision-making, but not to really any great extent. So mostly from a Lincoln perspective, for most companies in the industry, the repricing is underway. And again, back to Lincoln, we see new products in 2021, plus a more competitive position for our current products as the lift that we're talking about. Let me come back to the question of distribution effectiveness and I'm speaking, across our businesses, but I'm going to most -- I'm going to use the individual businesses, the examples. But in distribution, we've shifted from in-person meetings to virtual and the effectiveness of virtual in 2020 in our distribution channels has been tremendous. And so we're getting more people attending content meetings. The wholesalers aren't traveling around as much. And so they have more time to have one-on-ones with the financial advisers. So that's all working very well. I'll add to that, that we initiated a strategic review based on what we saw in the first couple of months of the pandemic and virtual and how effective it was being to take what we've learned and transferred into a strategic advantage going forward. So we just completed a 3-month study with the help of an outside consultant. And I think coming out of that, strategy, our advantage in the marketplace, which has been good all the time from a distribution standpoint is going to get better. And the use of virtual selling is going to be a real substantive addition to productivity across all industries, I think. But moving forward, historically, we probably did 30% of our aggregate distribution efforts was virtual, 70% was -- this is sort of average across all the channels, 70% was in person. And we think that's going to flip, maybe not completely, but 60% virtual, 40% in person, but much more effectiveness 5 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 09, 2020 / 1:40PM, LNC.N - Lincoln National Corp at Goldman Sachs Financial Services Conference (Virtual) for our financial -- our consumers, our partners and our own distribution organizations. So I'm very excited about what we're doing on distribution in the virtual environment, the digital environment to make it more productive and effective. Yaron Joseph Kinar - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - Research Analyst Got it. And with these initiatives and the changes to come, are there particular businesses and products that you expect to lead the growth into 2021? Dennis Robert Glass - Lincoln National Corporation - President, CEO & Director Yes. So reprice, I've talked about that shift. Let me spend a couple of minutes on that, Yaron. And again, I'm going to -- if I could just sort of say to set the table, the products that have been driven by the general account investment engine. So let's -- historically, guaranteed universal life. The ability to pay a premium and get a good defined guaranteed death benefit. That's been changing for the last 5 years, and it doesn't work as well today. So -- and other products that have longer duration characteristics, in our case, MoneyGuard, so the same issue, which is the value proposition of a fixed deposit and a guaranteed long-term care bucket of benefits. That isn't going to be as strong of a value proposition any longer, because we're not getting the kind of returns in that product on a general account basis that we have in the past. So what countries -- companies around the world are doing and in the United States is they are taking products that were general account investment engines, keeping those and then adding upside potential by building the investment engine on a separate account basis. So now when we go into the market with MoneyGuard, we'll have 2 choices for the consumer. One, give us x dollars of deposit, we'll guarantee x dollars of long-term care benefit and some amount of death benefit, but that will be a lower guarantee. But then move over to this other product driven by separate accounts, equities, some debt and the upside potential for the long-term care benefit will be bigger than even it was before interest rate drop. So how fast the market will adopt that product to the new one, the MoneyGuard with the equity engine, we'll see all the market research that we've done with consumers demonstrated it's a very valuable consumer value proposition. And that gets back to my opening remarks. So we're doing a lot of innovative product design that MoneyGuard being an example. And then we have a tremendously strong distribution system to get that in front of customers, financial advisers. However, you may forget you're on because you follow so many companies, but we have 100,000 financial advisers or brokers that choose a Lincoln product every 24 months. So with our wholesale platforms, selling new ideas into that strong financial adviser and broker basis is what gives us confidence that we'll be able to get products like that into the marketplace and successfully. Let me also give an example. In the Annuity business, for a long time, guaranteed lifetime income sort of led the industry as a consumer value. Consumers in the last 18 months are shifting to more asset protection products inside the Annuity business, so index variable annuity is an example. And here's another demonstration of the value proposition. The consumer on an indexed VA can say, "I want to take 10% downside market risk, and then I'm happy to get, let's say, 60% of the S&P 500 as upside potential," or they can say, look, "I'll take 30% downside risk, and then instead of 60%, maybe 80% of the participation in the S&P 500." So consumer is going to have a lot more opportunity at Lincoln in the industry to make choices about risk and reward. And I think that will work out fine over time for us and the industry. We've seen that, Yaron, in -- we did a study of products and growth -- industry growth rates in regions of the world where the interest rates were actually negative. And what we saw was that the growth rates for the life industries in those regions, a little bit, but not significantly lower than what we saw in the United States, but the shift in product mix is what drove the growth to keep it similar to what it was in the United States. Yaron Joseph Kinar - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - Research Analyst Got it. And as we see sales accelerate again and maybe we even see a bit of a catch-up of sales momentum in 2021, does that impact the cash conversion rate because you're deploying more capital potentially into organic growth? Will we see that conversion rate coming in at maybe the lower end of the 50% to 60% range that you've talked about in the past? 6 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 09, 2020 / 1:40PM, LNC.N - Lincoln National Corp at Goldman Sachs Financial Services Conference (Virtual) Dennis Robert Glass - Lincoln National Corporation - President, CEO & Director Yaron, let me just sort of talk about that. The -- in 2019 -- or excuse me, in 2020, you had the repricing, and you also had some pretty significant increased reserve requirements because of PBR that hit us hardest in the life line on our VUL ONE product and on our MoneyGuard product. So when we repriced, we had to take that into consideration. But what I'm driving at, though, is set that aside, the amount of business that we're doing in shorter guaranteed liabilities and the statistics that we talked about in the call, was about 82% of our business is nonguaranteed business and about 18% is guaranteed business. That compares to a couple of years ago where 70% was -- where it was more like 30% guaranteed. So just what we're selling in the marketplace has lower capital requirements because of the nature of the product than when we were selling a great deal of more of long-term liabilities. And again, the exception to that would be the 2 products in the life business that were affected by PBR. So as we go forward, we don't see much more capital being consumed than what we've had in the last couple of years from new business, slightly lower levels. On balance, slightly less capital strain per dollar of new business and so that will be a positive for cash flow conversion. So tracking out of that, of course, in the near term, is continued higher COVID claims, and that will run off. So all these things will shake out, and I guess the bottom line from my perspective would be that we will have sufficient capital to both drive top line sales and excess capital available to continue our share repurchase program, but there's a lot of moving parts. Yaron Joseph Kinar - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - Research Analyst Right. Right. Well, yes, that's our job to try and figure those out, I guess. Dennis Robert Glass - Lincoln National Corporation - President, CEO & Director Yes. Yes. Yaron Joseph Kinar - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - Research Analyst So I only launched coverage less than a week ago. And 2 themes that I've got a lot of questions on, specifically with regards to Lincoln or around potential regulatory changes and around risk transfers. So why don't we start with the regulatory -- potential regulatory changes first. So we're going to have a new administration coming to office in January. Do you see any potential initiatives that would limit compensation practices or implement stricter, best interest standards that would be revived under the new administration? And if so, what do you expect the ratifications of those initiatives to be to Lincoln? Dennis Robert Glass - Lincoln National Corporation - President, CEO & Director Yes. Great question, Yaron. Let's just start with the fact that the SEC has a very solid, best interest standard that they introduced, I think, last year, and that's the rule of the land right now. And the DOL has been following the SEC, I noticed that something came out in the last couple of days that was sort of compatible DOL list of regulations to what the SEC has -- already has the standard. So the SEC's best interest standard is a great compromise to permit the industry to provide good financial advice and good products, while protecting the consumer. So I think the SEC rules are very good. When we were providing our own comments to the SEC, we couldn't actually improve too much on what they had come forward with. So then it gets back to the question of what those -- the Department of Labor overlay on those qualified products that they have some say over as we go forward. I would guess they would try to strengthen that from their perspective, the protections for the consumer a little bit beyond what's in the SEC standard, but we'll have to see. Again, I think everybody believes the SEC standards are pretty good starting point. If at the margin, there's some protection on compensation or things like that in the narrow range of products that DOL says grace over. I think the industry will be able to deal with it. 7 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 09, 2020 / 1:40PM, LNC.N - Lincoln National Corp at Goldman Sachs Financial Services Conference (Virtual) Yaron Joseph Kinar - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - Research Analyst And then I think we are running out of time, but one item that I really do want to touch on because I'm looking at my screen here and already getting several questions on it, is the potential for risk transfers. We've seen some of those. There's a question around Lincoln's appetite for those deals. I was thinking about variable annuities, but clearly have other blocks of business, whether fixed annuities or even life where there may be appetite or willingness to transact? What can you say around that? Dennis Robert Glass - Lincoln National Corporation - President, CEO & Director Yes. I can say that I'm 100% with all the people who are asking the questions, which is that there's more capital in the marketplace, particularly on the VA risk transfer side than there has been in the past. Every time a deal is done, it makes it easier for the next deal to get done, because there's more technology, there's more comfort, people understand the issues. So because there's more capital in the risk transfer marketplace across the board, and we're seeing deals that have features that would have prevented us from getting to something economic before, maybe we can get to something economic because of what we've seen in the marketplace. So to answer the question, Lincoln is putting more energy in to try and find risk transfer opportunities in 2021. The principal objective, which is to use that capital to buy our shares back at what we think is a generational opportunity to buy Lincoln shares. Yaron Joseph Kinar - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - Research Analyst So essentially, it would be a pull forward of capital through such a transaction and using that capital towards share buybacks? Dennis Robert Glass - Lincoln National Corporation - President, CEO & Director Yes. It's -- the easiest way to think about it is you sell a block of business, the way we did with Athene a couple of years ago, release capital associated with that business, purchase price. And take the released capital, the purchase price, and buy our shares back. Let me hasten to say that we do these risk transfer deals on economics. And so we're going to have minimum economics associated with any risk transfer deal. And at the margin, we can tinker with those economics to make sure we get accretion if we buy our shares back but we're not going to do a deal that doesn't have the right economics for the basic transaction just to do a deal or just to get a little bit of earnings per share accretion. We start with, we need to get a decent return on the fundamentals of the transaction and then use that money in the best way possible for our shareholders. Yaron Joseph Kinar - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - Research Analyst Got it. And a couple of questions coming in from the audience. If you were to venture a guess here, do you think that such a deal would be more likely on the annuity side or the life side? Can you offer any comments around that? Dennis Robert Glass - Lincoln National Corporation - President, CEO & Director Yes, I can, Yaron. Let me just make the high level statement that what -- particularly on the VA side, but in general, in these deals, the most important dimension or characteristics is that the buyer has to have a pretty good understanding of the liability or the benefit payment schedule. So let's take the equitable transaction. The business that was sold and I only have a high -- I don't have all the details, but the business that's sold was deep in the money. So it was pretty obvious what the benefit stream of payments would be that the buyer would have to make on a go-forward basis. The second characteristic of the -- that transaction was, because of the nature of the liability and because of deepness of the in-money position of the customer, was that much of the reserves were general account reserves. And so asset management people love a predictable benefit payment and reserves that have a lot of general account assets backing that liability, so they can do their magic with their willingness to take a little bit more credit risk because of their skills. 8 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 09, 2020 / 1:40PM, LNC.N - Lincoln National Corp at Goldman Sachs Financial Services Conference (Virtual) So to the extent across our portfolio, we can demonstrate clear benefit streams with a lot of variability and to the extent that there's general account assets in play for the reserves and the capital. Those would be the best liabilities. That could happen -- we could see that in small parts of our guaranteed living benefit annuity in-force. We can see more of it in our life insurance in-force business. But right now, what we sort of see coming across in Transam is sort of a mix of those two. And let me hasten to say, Yaron, particularly on the annuity side, even though the markets has more capital in it, it's not a deep transactional market where things are happening on an everyday basis. I guess there's a term, it's a make an appointment kind of marketplace. But still, we're seeing a flow of opportunities. We're putting more resources and energy around it because of all the reasons I've just discussed, and we'll see what happens. Yaron Joseph Kinar - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - Research Analyst Got it. Well, I think we're just out of time. So thank you very much for this very early morning start for the... Dennis Robert Glass - Lincoln National Corporation - President, CEO & Director I hope people quote and tell it was 6:30 here. Have a good day, and thank you for inviting us and much success. Yaron Joseph Kinar - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - Research Analyst Hopefully, next year in person. All right. Dennis Robert Glass - Lincoln National Corporation - President, CEO & Director Yes. Yaron Joseph Kinar - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - Research Analyst Take care. DISCLAIMER Refinitiv reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes. In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized. THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES REFINITIV OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS. 2020, Refinitiv. All Rights Reserved. 13537531-2020-12-09T15:45:34.047 9 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 09, 2020 / 1:40PM, LNC.N - Lincoln National Corp at Goldman Sachs Financial Services Conference (Virtual)
REFINITIV STREETEVENTS EDITED TRANSCRIPT IMMNOV.ST - Immunovia AB (publ) - Special Call EVENT DATE/TIME: DECEMBER 03, 2020 / 9:00AM GMT REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS Laura Chirica Immunovia AB (publ) - Chief Commercial Officer Patrik Dahlen Immunovia AB (publ) - CEO CONFERENCE CALL PARTICIPANTS Alexandru Cogut Kempen & Co. N.V., Research Division - Analyst Sven Nordenstam Viktor Sundberg ABG Sundal Collier Holding ASA, Research Division - Research Analyst PRESENTATION Operator Welcome to the Immunovia investor presentation. (Operator Instructions) Today, I'm pleased to present the CEO, Patrik Dahlen. Please begin. Patrik Dahlen - Immunovia AB (publ) - CEO Thank you. Good morning, everyone, and thank you very much for joining this webcast. If we move on to the forward-looking statements, I do encourage you to read and understand our forward-looking statements. If we then move on to the next slide, for those of you who are new to me, my name is Patrik Dahlen, and I'm new in the role of CEO for the company. I joined as the new CEO just a month ago. I'm really excited to be here at the helm of Immunovia. We're in a very important phase of the company, and we are on a very last home stretch of making Immunovia's blood test IMMray PanCan-d available to patients on the U.S. market. If we could turn the page, today's discussion will really follow from the unfortunate media coverage that has been over the last couple of days, starting with an article by Dagens Industri, and we wanted to take this opportunity to add some clarity to the picture. Obviously, at the end of the Webinar, there will be room for you to ask questions, and I do encourage you to ask as many questions as you'd like. The topics that I will address today are the following. I'd like to talk about the huge unmet medical need and what solutions we are providing and what markets we're addressing, so that it becomes clear how we have calculated the addressable market size, et cetera. Second, I would like to shed some light on the data from the commercial test model study that was released in September and the verification study that was released in October. We're aware that we have perhaps not been so clear in our communication, and we want to take this Webinar today to once again go through the data that was released and hope to clarify any questions that you might have. And last, I will take you through what the process look from now until the first tests are available for the U.S. patients in quarter 1 2021. With that said, I will now move to the next slide. As all of you probably know by now, for these patients, early diagnosis is key. If pancreatic cancer is detected in stage I and II, the tumor is still resectable and the 5-year survival rate can be increased from a mere 5% to over 50% survival rate. The very tragic truth is that with today's standard of care, the vast majority of the patients are diagnosed too late, i.e., they are diagnosed in stage III and IV. And this means that it's difficult to operate on the patient. The cancer is not resectable. And on average, you have 5 months' time left to live. And our task as a company is to launch tests that enables early detection of pancreatic cancer such that we can improve the standard of care for detection of pancreatic cancer and thus, help save lives. 2 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 03, 2020 / 9:00AM, IMMNOV.ST - Immunovia AB (publ) - Special Call If I could have the next slide. Our IMMray PanCan-d test, it's not a test for screening of the general population. I think it's very important to emphasize that we have never intended the test to be used for the general population and broad-based screening for pancreatic cancer. Instead, it is intended to be used for 3 very specific risk groups. The first risk group that I'd like to talk about is the familial or the hereditary patient group. This is a group of individuals where there is a family history of pancreatic cancer and where genetic traits have been detected. This risk group should be monitored twice a year with a test like IMMray PanCan-d, which enables early detection of even stage I and II pancreatic cancers. The clinical unmet need here is huge, and our data to date show a strong diagnostic performance of our test. We believe and are convinced that we have a unique test with an ideal performance criterion for early detection of patients in this risk group. The second risk group I would like to talk about is the one with early and concerning symptoms. Here, our test is meant to be a complement and improve current standard of care. Standard of care today, including different imaging methods and a biomarker CA19-9. For this risk group, our test is intended to be used also as a rule-out test, providing clinically more relevant information than CA19-9 data alone. We believe our test can be used to help further improve the standard of care and improve the decision making and make it faster in a diagnostic sense. In this rule-out context, the negative predictive value is very important. And we have released data that show our IMMray PanCan-d has a high negative predictive value of 99.3% in a clinical cohort like this group. I should emphasize that we do not propose that the IMMray PanCan-d would replace the need for other confirmatory diagnostic methods, including imaging techniques like scanning. Third risk group we will address in the future are those patients, who have recently been diagnosed with type 2 diabetes and are over 50 years old. Here, we are proposing the IMMray PanCan-d test when, in the future, it has been validated on larger prospective studies like PanDIA, which is an ongoing study, that it can be used for diagnostic purposes for the detection of early-stage pancreatic cancer. Our data so far is encouraging, and we hope to be able to publish more data in the future based on the PanDIA study that we are conducting. And again, before moving to the next slide, I just, again, would like to emphasize that the test is targeting these patient risk groups and is not intended as a general population screening tool. If I could have the next slide. One of the questions that have arisen from the article is how we calculated our initial addressable market and specifically, there were questions around the diabetes patients. The facts and the assumptions for the first 2 risk groups are clear and evident. So I will not address those today because it's very easy to follow the assumptions that we made, the math that we made and the approach that we have taken. However, I would like to take a few moments to discuss the diabetics group. As the diabetes type 2 patients that are newly diagnosed and are over 50 years of age have a 10x higher risk of developing pancreatic cancer within the first to the third year after diagnosis. There is a high demand driven from the medical community to be able to early detect pancreatic cancers in these patients. And as we all know, the issues around diabetes is increasing year for year in the western world. Obviously, it's a huge market, and it will take time to penetrate it. We are clear about that. However, we see support in the medical community that this is a growing unmet medical need, and we have several clinicians who support our thinking. This is also evidenced by the mere fact that we have had a strong support to engage patients in our prospective study, PanDIA. Here, we have collected since 2018, more than 6,000 samples from patients with new-onset diabetes type 2 and are over 50 years of age. We are working side-by-side with different types of experts in the field in order to closely identify and address the medical needs with our prospective study. As a general observation on the market size estimates that we have given, I would like to state that we have so far only focused on the U.S. and the European markets, and we have not begun to include Asia as part of our estimated addressable market. But it's a well-known fact that in several Asian countries like China, Korea, Japan, pancreatic cancer is an even bigger challenge than in Europe and the U.S. With that, I'd like to move to the next slide, please. We have presented before on the Commercial Test Model Study and the results from thereof. I just want to briefly go through again and describe what we did. All in all, we had 1,113 serum samples, we had 315 PDACs or pancreatic cancer patients, samples in stage I through IV. We had 310 healthy controls and 488 symptomatic controls. We ran an 8-plex biomarker signature on the IMMray PanCan-d in combination with the biomarker CA19-9. And we applied the data from this analysis into our bioinformatics systems. The data that we were able to present is very impressive. We have accuracies that exceed 90% in all our cases. So all pancreatic cancers could be separated from all controls with an accuracy of 94%. All pancreatic cancer cases from symptomatic controls could be separated with an accuracy of 93%. 3 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 03, 2020 / 9:00AM, IMMNOV.ST - Immunovia AB (publ) - Special Call Maybe more impressively also pancreatic cancer cases, stage I and II could be separated from controls with an accuracy as high as 95%. Very impressive data, showing the ability of the test to detect very early stage pancreatic cancer in patients. And if we could move to the next slide. In terms of the verification study, again, I'd like to repeat some of the data that we have released before. This verification study was run as the same way as the commercial study and we have used the same software that was locked, the same production processes and QC methods. We had 81 cancer cases, stage I and II; we had 114 stage II and IV; 212 healthy; and 112 symptomatic controls. In terms of accuracy, the pancreatic cancer cases could be separated from healthy controls with an accuracy of 94% and the pancreatic cases from all controls could be separated with an accuracy of 91%. We have elected to give some more detail on specificity, sensitivity and negative predictive value in some of these cohorts and the ability for us, the specificity in detecting early stage I and II pancreatic cancers from healthy controls, the specificity is 99%, the sensitivity is 78% and negative predictive value is 99.3%. In terms of differentiating all controls or early stage I and II pancreatic cancer patients from all controls, symptomatics and healthy, we do that with an accuracy of 91%. There, the specificity is 93%, the sensitivity is 78% and the negative predictive value is 99.3%. So very encouraging data that we think are very significant and really provide strong evidence of the utility of the test going forward. All in all, the verification study confirms to rule out paradigm for the -- with a very high negative predictive value of 99.3%, which is a very outstanding number. Furthermore, on this call, I'd like to state that the positive predictive value for IMMray PanCan-d from the verification is 78% for a rule-in in pancreatic cancer. And interestingly enough, just as a comparison, the positive predictive value for a PSA test for prostate cancer, for instance, is about 30%. So we think we have, with the verification study performed extremely well, and we're very encouraged about the data that we have obtained. With that, I would like to move on to the next slide, please, and this is more about the road to market and the timelines going ahead. So where are we right now? We are awaiting the data from the validation study and that will be available in Q1. Then we will move on for the clear certification of our lab in Boston. With that, we will then be ready for sales start in late Q1 2021. The first sales wave will be for private persons that pay out of pocket. And in the meantime, we will continue with our efforts to proceed with reimbursement process and market expansion studies. It's very important to emphasize that the reimbursement process is run by prospective studies and by providing forward-looking data in terms of -- in our dialogues with the authorities. In my experience, reimbursement discussions will take roughly 1.5 years. So we put a 12 to 18 months estimate on -- from Q1 2021 forward until we can start roughly with reimbursed sales. But again, it's very important to emphasize that parallel with these efforts our prospective study programs are ongoing, and we will continue to work on the prospective study analysis. And these are obviously important steps as we move towards reimbursement. If I could get the next slide, please. We have a very extensive cooperation with a large number of key opinion leaders in the U.S. and Europe. We have more than top 30 key opinion leaders that are engaged in pancreatic cancer and that we cooperate with in the U.S. and Europe. They have been a part of our several clinical studies. All key opinion leaders that are on this slide are also principal investigators leading clinical studies at their clinics. This, of course, underlines the huge medical need for a blood test for pancreatic cancer as a complement to the diagnostic methods used today. The crucial difference we can deliver in this early diagnosis and in the case of symptomatic cases, accelerated diagnosis. If I could have the next slide. So in summary, the key takeaway message is today is that Immunovia is addressing a large unmet medical need for early diagnosis of pancreatic cancer. The IMMray PanCan-d has the potential to complement today's diagnostic methods. We have generated great clinical data and the test performance to date, and there is more data to come in 2021. We are particularly proud that we have been able to show that early detection of pancreatic cancer stage I and II in so-called healthy populations is possible. We have the U.S. organization in place and ready for launch in Q1. And we are expecting revenues from 2021 forward. With that, I would like again to thank you for listening in. And I also would like to reiterate that the main reason we are here at Immunovia is, of course, for the sake of pancreatic cancer patients. This is the basic motivation of all of us here at Immunovia, and we're very proud of the work that we have done to date. Now I would like to open up the call for questions. 4 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 03, 2020 / 9:00AM, IMMNOV.ST - Immunovia AB (publ) - Special Call QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS Operator (Operator Instructions) And our first question comes from the line of Viktor Sundberg of ABG Sundal Collier. Viktor Sundberg - ABG Sundal Collier Holding ASA, Research Division - Research Analyst Yes. So maybe just on some of the numbers you presented with regards to specificity and sensitivity. You quote here a negative predictive value of 0.993, and that is, of course, based on a specificity and in prevalence in some population. So what is that based on in terms of prevalence and specificity? Patrik Dahlen - Immunovia AB (publ) - CEO So the specificities are what I mentioned and what we have released, obviously. For us, what's important is obviously the negative predictive value and the fact that it's high. And this is in the context of symptomatics, that is -- I'm assuming that's where your question is kind of focused on. For us, what's important is obviously, that we have a high negative predictive value because this is the very basis by which the test can be used for rule-out purposes, and this will then enable clinicians to make faster decisions and move the patients onwards in the work up in the workflow. So this is the very -- let's call it, the sort of reason why we think the test is better, and it's significantly better than the standard of care today, which is largely speaking, based on CA19-9 alone, cutoff based analysis to either propose an increased risk for pancreatic cancer or not. Viktor Sundberg - ABG Sundal Collier Holding ASA, Research Division - Research Analyst But just to be clear, is the specificity coming from healthy controls, all controls? And also the prevalence, is that based on the prevalence in the population? And what prevalence do we have in, in the asymptomatic individuals coming into a gastro clinic? Patrik Dahlen - Immunovia AB (publ) - CEO Yes. So the NPV that I closed -- that I cited of 99.3% is from the clinical cohort, i.e., the symptomatics. So it is in that cohort. And the same with the PPV that I mentioned comes from that. And there, the prevalence is 3%. Viktor Sundberg - ABG Sundal Collier Holding ASA, Research Division - Research Analyst Exactly. And how do you define a rule-out test? If you say that PanCan-d is not intended to replace imaging and further diagnostic tests. Per definition, isn't that not a rule-out test? I mean you have to use it with other diagnostic modalities to so to speak, in a combination with all the other tests, then you could potentially rule out the disease or say rule-in the disease. Could you just comment on that maybe? Patrik Dahlen - Immunovia AB (publ) - CEO So yes, a brief comment. I think from the very beginning, I think we, at least, from our point of view, have been very clear that we did not intend in the group of symptomatics to replace imaging or scanning. It is not something that we have communicated and it's not the intention. So some of the comments from the Dagens Industri article, for instance, in that sense, are really irrelevant because it's never been our intention to replace imaging as a final diagnostic method for the symptomatics. 5 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 03, 2020 / 9:00AM, IMMNOV.ST - Immunovia AB (publ) - Special Call Viktor Sundberg - ABG Sundal Collier Holding ASA, Research Division - Research Analyst Yes. Fully agree. And yes, as we are thinking, we are thinking of this, as you said, in combination with other diagnostic modalities to work in that setting. But in terms of pricing them, for example, CA19-9 is used here, as you said, and I guess the value that clinicians see here is that it is a scale and high values can tell you something and very low values can tell you something as well. And your test is binary in that sense. What supports in terms of pricing that should be priced maybe 80 to 100x the price of CA19-9 in this setting? Or can you speak a bit more about the pricing strategy that you see here? Patrik Dahlen - Immunovia AB (publ) - CEO So in general terms, if I start just with generic terms about the pricing strategy, it's clearly and obviously, based on the fact that there are different types of tests and for different cancer types in the marketplace that are used in the same context as our test will be used going forward and that are priced significantly higher. And of course, the other part of the equation is the sort of clinical utility. And I think without a doubt, in general terms, the price that we have proposed, which, again, is $600 per test, is a test price based on the market conditions and other tests' price versus the clinical utility that we bring. In terms of the symptomatics, specifically, there, our test brings significantly higher value than CA19-9 alone. And this is, of course, for maybe not you and I, Viktor, to discuss so much, but more for us and the clinicians to discuss as we continue to provide more data to the market. And based on the feedback that we have -- we have feedback from key opinion leaders that clearly indicate that this is a valuable test to accelerate the diagnosis and make earlier diagnosis. Viktor Sundberg - ABG Sundal Collier Holding ASA, Research Division - Research Analyst Yes. And in terms of -- you also talked about the positive predictive value here for the first time. And I mean the positive predictive value that you are quoting are coming from the verification study, but maybe the prevalence in that cohort of samples is a bit overexaggerated compared to the prevalence maybe that you see in the population. Maybe there, a prevalence of 1% would be more appropriate and then your positive predictive value would be a low single-digit number. I mean could you just comment on that of your thinking about using a positive predictive value from a sample study and applying that, so to speak, generally among the PDAC patients? Patrik Dahlen - Immunovia AB (publ) - CEO So the cohorts that we have studies are, of course, a reflection of the type of patients that are in the gastro centers and the like. And the positive predictive value that we state here is obviously based on the prevalence in the cohort that we have studied. And that's, to the best of my knowledge, the only way we can express the positive predictive value. Viktor Sundberg - ABG Sundal Collier Holding ASA, Research Division - Research Analyst But it would be very low, I guess, in the real settings, so to speak, in a gastro clinic or in a diabetes group or whatever you would apply the test? Patrik Dahlen - Immunovia AB (publ) - CEO So what I have referred to here is a clinical cohort that comes from symptomatics from these types of clinics. And the prevalence that we have chosen to calculate the PPV, or the positive predictive value, is based on the prevalence of PDACs in that setting. So that is how we have derived at this number. Viktor Sundberg - ABG Sundal Collier Holding ASA, Research Division - Research Analyst Okay. So please stop me if I have a lot of questions here, maybe other people are waiting in the queue. But just to touch on maybe the nuance of diabetes population, I mean that's a big population. It's 1.5 million people in the U.S. And a test with your performance, as it looks now at a verification 6 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 03, 2020 / 9:00AM, IMMNOV.ST - Immunovia AB (publ) - Special Call study, would send maybe hundreds of thousands of people as being false positive to additional screening, perhaps biopsies. And in worst case, people could also get pancreatectomy that carry a high mortality, and that's something that the U.S. Preventative Task Force is, of course, very concerned about in general with screening of PDAC. And -- could you just comment -- I mean for all tests, I guess, that have been introduced in a new cancer, mortality outcome-based studies have been the norm for USPCTF (sic) [USPSTF] to accept that and include that in guidelines. Why do you think that PDAC would be a free pass, for example, in this population? Patrik Dahlen - Immunovia AB (publ) - CEO I don't remember that I would have said a free pass or someone else would have said a free passing. In fact, what I said is that we have some early data. We think it's encouraging data. The sample sizes that we have included so far in the verification study are small. So it's too early to draw absolutely conclusive conclusions from that. We are conducting, to the best of my knowledge, one of the largest studies ever done on new-onset diabetics over 50 years of age. We have more than 6,000 samples so far collected. And we will test these when we have a validated test that we will have, as you know, at the end of quarter 1 2021. So I think from that point of view, we are discussing a little bit sort of a ahead of time, if I put it that way, Viktor. I think it's best always in these type of situations to conduct the clinical studies, report the full data and then discuss where we go. So I think, at least from my point of view, I think we are positioning this clearly as a future potential. And we think there is a big, big unmet need since the patients will display such a high increased risk. Viktor Sundberg - ABG Sundal Collier Holding ASA, Research Division - Research Analyst But that mortality outcome-based study could be a possibility. You don't to rule that out, so to speak? Patrik Dahlen - Immunovia AB (publ) - CEO I think what's most important for us is, of course, to do the -- conduct the prospective study, get the data from that and then move on from there. So that's how we view it. We -- as in many of these studies that we are conducting, the number of positive cases that you can collect in a relatively short period of time is still relatively small, as you know. And therefore, we need to be cautious about making too forward-looking statements with regards to whether we need to run a mortality-based study or not. Viktor Sundberg - ABG Sundal Collier Holding ASA, Research Division - Research Analyst Okay. And just a final question. Do you still reiterate your plan to present the interim data for the PanFAM study here in the first half of 2021? And what kind of data could we expect there? Patrik Dahlen - Immunovia AB (publ) - CEO Yes. So as you know, I'm new here, and we are going through and evaluating a communication plan. And we will, of course, as soon as we have the validation study done and we have a validated test, then we will move ahead with PanFAM, PanDIA and the other tests where we have -- studies where we have collected samples. Operator Our next question comes from the line of Alex Cogut of Kempen. 7 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 03, 2020 / 9:00AM, IMMNOV.ST - Immunovia AB (publ) - Special Call Alexandru Cogut - Kempen & Co. N.V., Research Division - Analyst I just would like to hear a little bit more about your guidance regarding reimbursement discussions. I believe you mentioned you expect it to take 12 to 18 months from the sales day launch. Could you talk a little bit more about kind of the steps that you need to take in order to get that reimbursement in the U.S.? Patrik Dahlen - Immunovia AB (publ) - CEO Yes. So it's basically about collecting a dossier where you have, based on prospective studies, you have clinical data. You present the clinical data and the payers and the HMOs will be evaluating the data. And based on that, they will do their health economics calculations and determine not only reimbursement but also reimbursement rates, et cetera, and also for the breadth of availability of reimbursement. So this is a fairly standard process. What's a little bit unique, of course, in the U.S. is that they require U.S. samples. So this is obviously something that we are taking into account. Alexandru Cogut - Kempen & Co. N.V., Research Division - Analyst Got it. And I believe for the sort of the lead indications, if I may, for asymptomatic and patients at higher risk, you don't have -- you don't require any changes in USPSTF guidelines. Is that correct? Patrik Dahlen - Immunovia AB (publ) - CEO We are -- right. We don't know for sure, but we are, of course, due to our long-time relationships with the key opinion leaders, many of our key opinion leaders that we work more closely with are themselves, guideline authors, and obviously, we work very closely with them. And as the data unfolds and we move forward, we will be able to be a bit more specific about this. But it's obviously something we've been extremely focused on for 5, 6 years already, understanding what are the guidelines and how do we fit into the guidelines and how do we possibly improve the guidelines with the tests that we come. So it's -- we have a very, very close relationship with the key opinion leaders. Operator (Operator Instructions) And we have a question from the line of Sven Nordenstam of Dagens Industri. Sven Nordenstam I would like to return to the question of false positives, and I'd be curious to hear if you had any discussion with clinics and so on with -- about how that flow of patients will be handled. Because it looks like your tests in a clinical setting with a prevalence of 3% and specificity of say, what, 85%, bearing in mind that symptomatics drag down the average, that the rate of false positives to true positives would be at least 5x. So I mean since this is a very serious condition, you -- some number of false positives is acceptable, but what is the -- what are the discussions there? What do your key opinion leaders say about the -- and how high rates can be accepted? Patrik Dahlen - Immunovia AB (publ) - CEO So we have, obviously, set the specifications for the performance of our tests according to very close discussions with our key opinion leaders. And we have -- are following that. And with the data that we have put out from the verification study, we have had discussions with key opinion leaders about the utility and the way the test would be used in these 3 different risk groups. And the feedback that we have is that we have seen it exactly correctly, i.e., that for the hereditary group, this is very, very unique and fantastic performance that the test provides and that we can detect with very high sensitivity and high specificity, early stages stage I and stage II pancreatic cancers. 8 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 03, 2020 / 9:00AM, IMMNOV.ST - Immunovia AB (publ) - Special Call In the symptomatics group, which, I guess, is the one that you are mostly interested in, there, again, as I have -- think -- said multiple times today, the intention is not to replace scanning as it seemed at least a few of the opinion leaders that have been quoted in your article, I would have assumed that, that was what we were intending to do, which has never been the case. We are again following the guidelines of our clinicians and input from our key opinion leaders and our test is intended to provide a deeper and better understanding of the status of the patient than CA19-9 alone can do. And that is what it's doing. And I think I'll leave it at that. Sven Nordenstam Okay. That's very clear. I would also like to return to the question of negative predictive value and positive predictive value. If you -- I don't -- I just don't get the numbers here. The positive predictive value and the negative predictive value that you have provided, they think cannot be there at the same time. It's a mathematical impossibility, in fact, generally with the prevalence of 3% at specificity around 90%, sensitivity of 80%, you cannot have an NPV of 0.993 and the PPV of 70%. In fact, PPV could be around 20%. So are you -- what numbers are you referring to when you're talking about the PPV of 78%? Patrik Dahlen - Immunovia AB (publ) - CEO So it is, again, Sven, as I just explained already earlier that the positive predictive value for IMMray PanCan-d that comes from the verification study is 78% for rule-in in pancreatic cancers in the group of the symptomatics. And it's based on the clinical cohort that we were examining, which is the cohort of symptomatics collected from clinics like gastro centers, where the relevant prevalence of PDACs is what we have taken into account. So there is -- it's a perfect reflection of the actual situation in the clinics in terms of the samples that we get in for our studies. And we are just reflecting the prevalence, and the cohorts are what we get in. So -- and then we do the data and then now we report the data. There's nothing statistically impossible about what we report. Sven Nordenstam Okay. Right. Maybe we can figure that out at a later stage, as that may be a little bit technical for the telephone conference. Okay. Operator And we have no further questions on the telephone lines at this time. Please go ahead, speaker. Laura Chirica - Immunovia AB (publ) - Chief Commercial Officer Okay. Thank you very much. I'm Laura Chirica, and I'm in charge of the commercialization here at Immunovia. And today, I am also participating to this call together with Patrik, and I am receiving your questions. So I'm going to go through and read them one by one, and we are going to give answers to, hopefully, all of you. And I will start with in the order you have sent them to me. The first one is, can you mention something about the critique from Dagens Industri involving 1 person that is also involved in PharmaCyte conflict of interest. And then you are referring to our collaborator, Matthias Lhr. The other question is will Immunovia be more aggressive in the media from now on to bring forward the positive aspects of your company? Patrik Dahlen - Immunovia AB (publ) - CEO That is a very broad question. I think, first of all, whilst we feel that it has been important for us to react on the article and articles that have been published recently and this is, in fact, the very basis for this call. In general terms, I would say that we as a company and I as a person at least, don't 9 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 03, 2020 / 9:00AM, IMMNOV.ST - Immunovia AB (publ) - Special Call want to meet critique with more critique, if I put it that way. I'm a much more a believer of general sharing of information and discussing of information and then we kind of take it from there. In terms of communication going forward, we're definitely looking at a new communication plan and a new way to communicate with the market. This is not a reaction to the last few days' articles. This is only because I am new at the helm of Immunovia and I feel a need for a more forward-looking communication strategy for the company. And this is why we will be a little bit more forward-looking as we move forward in terms of our communication. Laura Chirica - Immunovia AB (publ) - Chief Commercial Officer And I forgot to say that this question came from [Frederik Alcrist]. And because this question is repeatedly coming from some other people, I will just add because I have been working with Matthias Lhr for a very long time and extremely productive and good collaboration. So I just want to confirm Patrik's comment, and I just want to say that we are looking forward to a great collaboration. Then I will move to the next one, which is from [Michael Grning] from Danske Bank. Can the IMMray first detect pancreatic cancer in an earlier stage than using imaging scanners? Patrik Dahlen - Immunovia AB (publ) - CEO You can answer very shortly on that. But I think in general terms, the patients that come in, that are symptomatic, have been sick for a while and they have developed more and more symptoms. These are often vague and wide symptoms and therefore the disease continues to develop. If they do have a pancreatic cancer, they can have a whole host of other disorders that are causing these vague and concerning symptoms. So in that sense, the role of our test in that group of people is, again, as we have said a few times earlier today, it's really to enhance the current standard of practice and make a better test than what's currently available. But in the end, the ultimate detection or diagnosis will be made with the scanner. Laura Chirica - Immunovia AB (publ) - Chief Commercial Officer Okay. Then we are moving to the next question, that we have, comes from [Yunus Pashan]. And he is asking which are the risks that are connected to the process that is leading to the reimbursement in late 2023. Patrik Dahlen - Immunovia AB (publ) - CEO So we have started in good time to collect samples for -- to be used for the reimbursement process in terms of collecting prospective samples. So we are in that sense started early, which is great. The next step that needs to be taken is obviously with the validation study and putting in place the validated test. From there on, it's obviously about making sure that we have enough prevalence, so that the data that we collect is and the data that we will be presenting to the authorities is such that it gives meaningful medical data. And what I mean with that is that the prevalence of incidences needs to be high enough, so that we can with the statistical significance present data that shows the useful of the test. So this is obviously one of the areas that we are very focused on, and this is why we feel we are in a good position right now because we -- as I said, we have started to collect the samples very early. Laura Chirica - Immunovia AB (publ) - Chief Commercial Officer We got the feedback that there was no sound. Operator I can confirm that we can hear sound from yourselves. Please continue. 10 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 03, 2020 / 9:00AM, IMMNOV.ST - Immunovia AB (publ) - Special Call Patrik Dahlen - Immunovia AB (publ) - CEO Okay. Perfect. We continue. Laura Chirica - Immunovia AB (publ) - Chief Commercial Officer We continue. Okay. We move to the next question, which comes from Andreas Barry -- Berryman, and he's asking, there are 3 categories that are the target group for the test. How large in comparison is the number of pancreas cases that come from -- pancreas cancer, of course, that come from outside of those 3 categories. Patrik Dahlen - Immunovia AB (publ) - CEO That is a question that's very hard for me to respond to, as I'm, again, quite new to the company. So that is something that I will have to revert to later on. Laura Chirica - Immunovia AB (publ) - Chief Commercial Officer Okay. Then we take the next one from Victor Danielson. Which subgroup in the verification study did the positive predictive value of 78% refer to? Would you be able to provide the positive predictive value for all subgroups, please? And now we actually received from outside that the connection broke and it wasn't possible to follow. Patrik Dahlen - Immunovia AB (publ) - CEO So Jerry, it seems that we have lost the outside, I don't know. You seem to be hearing us quite well. Laura Chirica - Immunovia AB (publ) - Chief Commercial Officer But the people outside are complaining. Operator Yes, I can confirm we still have sound in the audio teleconference. I'm checking with my colleagues to see if sound can still be heard via the webcast. Laura Chirica - Immunovia AB (publ) - Chief Commercial Officer They are writing they are leaving the call because they cannot hear. Operator Okay. I can confirm we do still have sound in the teleconference, and we still have a number of lines dialed in. Patrik Dahlen - Immunovia AB (publ) - CEO Okay. 11 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 03, 2020 / 9:00AM, IMMNOV.ST - Immunovia AB (publ) - Special Call Laura Chirica - Immunovia AB (publ) - Chief Commercial Officer Okay. Yes. So it was about the positive predictive value for all subgroups. That was the question. Patrik Dahlen - Immunovia AB (publ) - CEO Yes. Yes. And I think what we'll do on that is obviously -- we'll come back with publication around that or a release around that, so that we properly share all of the information as widely as possible. So that's probably the best way to release that data is to go out with it. Laura Chirica - Immunovia AB (publ) - Chief Commercial Officer Yes. We get the question, [Lum Ba] says, why have you not included any projections from Asia? Patrik Dahlen - Immunovia AB (publ) - CEO This is because we have been extremely focused on Europe and the U.S. And as you can see from the clinics and the key opinion leaders that we work with, we are exclusively focused on the U.S. and Europe. And in order to really include and do proper calculations on the Asian situation, we would, first of all, need to start broader collaborations in Asia. We have a few key opinion leaders there but not a lot. And it would really require us to broaden out. And this, we will -- we think it's -- the pancreatic cancer is a significant challenge in the Asian population, particularly in China, Korea and Japan, as I have mentioned. And we will definitely -- once we're well grounded in the U.S. and Europe, we will definitely move on and start addressing that. And when we do that, we will also do the same calculations as we have done for Europe and the U.S. and provide sort of an outlook of potential market size in this region. Laura Chirica - Immunovia AB (publ) - Chief Commercial Officer And the next question comes from Michael Loughman. Can you give us an update on the pipeline? Where are you with RA and lung? And when can we expect to hear more about this big project? Patrik Dahlen - Immunovia AB (publ) - CEO So at this stage, there's really no update that I can give you. We will return to that in the New Year 2021. The situation is still the same for RA and for lung cancer that we had when we last discussed with the market in context of the quarter 3 interim report. Laura Chirica - Immunovia AB (publ) - Chief Commercial Officer Yes. And we are moving on to the question, and we should actually answer that because we've had the connection broken. So I got the question, will you be publishing today's webcast on your website, so that they can follow the part that was broken? Oscar Peterson was asking, and the answer is yes. Patrik Dahlen - Immunovia AB (publ) - CEO Yes. 12 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 03, 2020 / 9:00AM, IMMNOV.ST - Immunovia AB (publ) - Special Call Laura Chirica - Immunovia AB (publ) - Chief Commercial Officer Okay. I'm just looking through and we got actually a comment that the connection broke during the answer to -- it was through -- to Danske Bank. But anyhow we are going to have this in recorded. Patrik Dahlen - Immunovia AB (publ) - CEO I think that's it then if... Laura Chirica - Immunovia AB (publ) - Chief Commercial Officer This is what we have had. Patrik Dahlen - Immunovia AB (publ) - CEO Thank you. Thank you so much, Laura, and thank you, everyone, for calling in. I do apologize if the webcast stopped giving audio at some point in time. Obviously, this discussion has been recorded anyway. So it will be available for you to listen to in its entirety. Again, I really would like to thank you all for your contribution and for your interest. Thank you for your interest in Immunovia. Again, as I said a few times before, we are extremely excited here at Immunovia to be a company in the forefront for providing early diagnostic means for pancreatic cancer and doing that with a simple and easy-to-use blood test. So for us, we're really, really excited about the future. And again, thank you very much for participating. Thank you. Laura Chirica - Immunovia AB (publ) - Chief Commercial Officer Thank you. Bye. DISCLAIMER Refinitiv reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes. In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized. THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES REFINITIV OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS. 2020, Refinitiv. All Rights Reserved. 13537597-2020-12-03T11:34:33.633 13 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 03, 2020 / 9:00AM, IMMNOV.ST - Immunovia AB (publ) - Special Call
REFINITIV STREETEVENTS EDITED TRANSCRIPT VBIV.OQ - VBI Vaccines Inc. - Special Call EVENT DATE/TIME: DECEMBER 08, 2020 / 4:00PM GMT REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS David Evander Anderson VBI Vaccines Inc. - Chief Scientific Officer Jeffrey R. Baxter VBI Vaccines Inc. - President, CEO & Director CONFERENCE CALL PARTICIPANTS Steven James Seedhouse Raymond James & Associates, Inc., Research Division - Research Analyst PRESENTATION Steven James Seedhouse - Raymond James & Associates, Inc., Research Division - Research Analyst Great. It looks like attendees are filing in, and the queue has slowed down. So I just want to say good morning, and thank you, everyone, for joining us for today's fireside chat with VBI Vaccines to discuss the company's hepatitis B portfolio. I'm Steve Seedhouse, research analyst at Raymond James. I'll be hosting today's event. By way of background, we've covered VBI for over a year. And we've been recommending to stock on the basis of their promising therapeutic and prophylactic vaccine platform, with the company advancing towards U.S. and European approvals and launch of Sci-B-Vac, a prophylactic hepatitis B or HBV vaccine next year potentially as well as numerous announcements the company has made in recent weeks that we'll discuss over the next 30 or 40 minutes. It's a timely conversation. To start, I'd like to invite CEO, Jeff Baxter, to provide a brief slide presentation, which is available, by the way, over Zoom for those that may be dialing in by phone, to review the hepatitis B portfolio, which will be followed by a Q&A session between us. So we're looking forward to today's event. And with that, Jeff, I'll turn the floor over to you to get started. Thanks for joining us. Jeffrey R. Baxter - VBI Vaccines Inc. - President, CEO & Director Great. Thanks very much, Steve, and good morning, everyone. Thank you very much for joining us today and your interest in VBI. And more generally, thank you, Steve and Raymond James, for hosting us today to discuss VBI's 2 candidates in hepatitis B. I'm also joined today by Dr. Dave Anderson, VBI's Chief Scientific Officer. Next slide, please. So before I get started, I would point you to the customary remarks on forward-looking statements contained within this slide. Next slide, please. So hepatitis B is a significant and increasing unmet need across the U.S. and in fact across the major markets in Northern Europe. Between 1 million and 2 million individuals are infected in the U.S. But unfortunately, we actually don't know (inaudible) how many, because the surveillance is not sophisticated in terms of hepatitis B market. Over the last 4 to 5 years, we're seeing a significant increase in acute hepatitis B rates and infection. That's largely due to the increase in global mobility. There's over 100 million individuals infected -- chronically infected in China, for example. And with both voluntary migration through vacations, student travel, et cetera, and the involuntary -- unfortunately, involuntary migrations, refugees in the Middle East, for example, Northern Africa, from Latin America into North America, we've seen unprotected populations mixing in with those that are protected via universal vaccination, which by the way has only been in place in the U.S. for about the last 20 years and in Europe for about the last 10 to 20 years in Southern Europe and actually only introduced in U.K. a couple of years ago. So that, coupled with a low infection, a low awareness of infection. HBV is actually known as a silent killer. Often, people can be chronically infected and symptoms do not show in later in life. Hence, because you only have about 34% in U.S. chronically infected adults are unaware of their infection statement and so unwittingly can pass it on to others. 2 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 08, 2020 / 4:00PM, VBIV.OQ - VBI Vaccines Inc. - Special Call Now hepatitis B is the -- one of the most contagious of the common viruses, current pandemic aside, of course. And adult vaccination rates remain persistently low. I mentioned earlier that universal vaccination has been in place for the last 20 years in the U.S., but the uptake is highly, highly dependent upon socioeconomic groups and, of course, in people's willingness to vaccinate their children. In 2017, the reported hep B vaccination rate in adults, aged 19 over, was about 25%, at least almost 200 million unprotected adults in the U.S. And of course, in Europe, the numbers are approximately the same. Next slide, please. So given that hep B is one of the most contagious of the common viruses, VBI made hepatitis B one of our priority viral targets. And we are really excited about being part of the public health solution to effectively eliminate hep B infection through both improved preventative interventions of prophylactic vaccine and the development of a therapeutic candidate within a functional cure regimen. So if we consider first the prophylactic vaccine, VBI's 3-antigen prophylactic vaccine is known as Sci-B-Vac in Israel, where it's first licensed, and I will refer to it as Sci-B-Vac through the rest of this presentation. We are currently in the process with the European Medicines Agency and FDA to agree what the brand name will be across North America and Northern Europe. But as I said, I will refer to it as Sci-B-Vac through this presentation. So Sci-B-Vac is the only prophylactic hep B vaccine that contains all 3 surface antigens of the hepatitis B virus and is manufactured in mammalian cells. Now these 2 characteristics or 2 particular characteristics of Sci-B-Vac are really important. As the name suggests, the virus-like particle-based vaccine, you want your vaccine, the vaccine particle, to look as much like the virus as possible. And the inclusion of 3 antigens and the fact that it's derived from mammalian cells is really important. The other 2 approved hepatitis B vaccines, actually sorry, 3 approved hepatitis B vaccines, prophylactic vaccines in the U.S. are just single-antigen vaccines derived from yeast. So where are we with our candidate? We completed the pivotal Phase III program, which consists of 2 studies, PROTECT and CONSTANT, in Q1 of this year. In the last several weeks, we submitted for regulatory approval in both Europe and in the U.S. I'll be talking more about what the expected feedback from those regulators will be in the concluding slide. With regards to the treatment candidate, VBI-2601, was derived from the prophylactic vaccine. So it has the same 3 antigen confirmation, Pre-S1, Pre-S2 and S. And importantly, Pre-S1 and Pre-S2 in dose more about this. This Is a novel antigen, part of which elicits this very potent response, but reformulated in terms of the antigen ratios, but also a novel adjuvant. Currently, that's in clinical development with our partner, Brii Biosciences in Greater China. Now a few weeks ago, Dave and I reviewed the initial results of that ongoing Phase I/Phase IIa study, which was the initial low-dose arm. And with that data, we believe that we achieved essentially a human proof-of-concept and an important potential role in a functional cure regimen. Next slide, please. So to just say a few words on the prophylactic vaccine. Dave will elaborate more on the therapeutic very shortly. The really important thing about Sci-B-Vac is it's effective in all adults, in fact, all classes of potential HBV subjects. So compared with Engerix-B, which is the current standard of care and sells over $200 million in the U.S. adult market, Sci-B-Vac demonstrated higher seroprotection rates, 91% versus 76% in the current standard of care GSK's Engerix-B and higher geometric mean concentration of anti-HBs titers. Also critically in terms of expanding the market, it is well-known in the clinical world that GSK's vaccine is a lot less effective in both older adults through the onset of immunosenescence insistence and those with immunocompromising comorbidities. The GSK's vaccine comes less effective. The bulk of those $200 million sales for GSK in North America are in the younger adults, 18 to 50. But in older adults, Sci-B-Vac achieved both clinical and statistical superiority over the current standard of care. And as you can see from these SPR rates in 45 and over, 89% protection versus 73% for Engerix-B, and in 65 and over, 84% versus 65%. That really is quite a remarkable result in these individuals that are much harder to protect. 3 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 08, 2020 / 4:00PM, VBIV.OQ - VBI Vaccines Inc. - Special Call But also in younger adults, 18 to 45, which would be the battleground with the other 2 main licensed vaccines in the U.S., 90% of adults, aged 18 to 45, vaccinated with Sci-B-Vac were protected after 2 doses. That is really important. Legislation regulation says that frontline health care workers, public service sector workers, et cetera are vaccinated against HBV. Again, because it's one of the most contagious of the common viruses. So to provide much faster protection, kinetics protection being much more rapid Sci-B-Vac are really important. It means essentially 90% of frontline workers, for example, can be protected after a matter of 10 weeks rather than, say, 6 months with GSK's Engerix-B. It takes 3 vaccines in approximately 6 months to achieve that 90% protection. And lastly, in adults with immunocompromise and comorbidities such as diabetes, obese individuals, heavy drinkers, smokers, whose immune systems are compromised and other symptoms of pre-diabetics, you can see again statistical superiority in diabetics, Sci-B-Vac achieved 93% protection rate versus 58%, and in obese, nearly 90% seroprotection rate versus 68% with Engerix-B. Next slide, please. And as we move to commercialization, we were really excited on Monday of this week to announce a commercial partnership with Syneos Health. Now Syneos is a company that has grown dramatically through both organic growth but also through acquisition to really build this end-to-end commercialization capability. This is not a simple rental rate type of arrangement. We have been working with Syneos now in the pre-launch phase for over a year. We were intimately involved in the recruitment of the senior staff that are dedicated to supporting VBI's Sci-B-Vac commercial launch. We now have approximately 17 people dedicated to the pre-commercialization work through the marketing and the various other teams who are building brand awareness and the, as I say, preparing for the launch. So this really is an innovative approach, and it's highly, highly resource effective for VBI. Because the Syneos organization has very experienced staff, very senior staff who have worked with many of the global pharmaceutical companies either directly worked for them and now in Syneos have actually supported commercialization. Syneos are actually currently in North America, promoting 3 vaccines for global organizations. So we're able to access expertise and experience pool that a single-product company would find difficult. But also, quite frankly, the recruitment of some 60 people, which will be recruited prior to the launch of Sci-B-Vac would be a huge distraction for VBI, given everything else that's going on in the pipeline. So working with Syneos, as I say, we're able to access very experienced people, degree of expertise that we would find it difficult. It's a small biotech with a one product in our sales bag and do it in a much more effective way without the distraction perhaps that it might take if those people were onboard. So we're very excited about this. It's a new model. It's innovative. And we believe it's going to lead to a highly effective launch for Sci-B-Vac later this year -- sorry, later next year, which we'd talk about more. With that, I'll hand over to Dave Anderson, our Chief Scientific Officer, to review the data for 2601. David Evander Anderson - VBI Vaccines Inc. - Chief Scientific Officer Great. Thanks, Jeff. So I think what's summarized here is what is fairly well accepted now in terms of what's going to be necessary to achieve a sustained functional cure. It's very clear that the standard of care currently, which is treatment with very potent nucleoside inhibitors will be the backbone of any treatment. And that really drives down DNA levels to essentially undetectable levels. Having said that, a very immunosuppressive tolerizing HBs Antigen is still being pumped into the system, preventing any kind of immune restoration. And so there are many innovators in the field that have directly gone after trying to suppress secretion of that HBs Antigen. Now a few years ago, there was a hope that simply reducing those HBs Antigen levels would lead to a spontaneous restoration of immunity. I think while there's still trials ongoing, indications are that, that's certainly not going to be the case for the vast majority of our patients. And I think that's consistent with what we believe would be the case when we initiated this program. And so that leads to the third component, which is something active we've done to try to restore immune function. And so whereas many of the innovators have focused on trying to drive down HBs Antigen levels, the goal of this trial was really to see if using 2601, we could restore both antibody and T cell immunity against HBV. 4 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 08, 2020 / 4:00PM, VBIV.OQ - VBI Vaccines Inc. - Special Call Next slide. So what you can see here is data from, as Jeff said, the low-dose cohort in the trial. There were 9 that we could evaluate for T cell responses. And here's data from 6 of the 9 that could respond. The majority did respond to vaccination. If you look along the bottom row, that's capturing antibody responses to HBs Antigen as well as the Pre-S1 and Pre-S2 components. And then the top row is capturing T cell responses to those same 3 antigens. Now I've said that these patients are tolerized, and you can see that, because at week 0 in any of those bottom graphs, you can see they've completely lost antibodies against the HBs Antigen, shown in blue. What you can see is to different extents, in every case, monthly vaccinations for the first 3 months led to restoration of antibody responses against the HBs Antigen. Now that certainly had us encouraged, but to be clear, there have been reports of that in the past. What's been a much greater hurdle has been to restore T cell responses, particularly to the HBs Antigen. So if you now look across the top panel, the top row, what you can see is, to different extents, there was very clear boosting of HBV S-specific T cells, shown there in blue. And coming back to what Jeff said, the unique composition of this vaccine is the presence of these Pre-S1 and Pre-S2 antigens, which have very strong T helper cell epitopes. We believe at the onset that they would be able to help boost and overcome the tolerance. And what you can see is consistent with restoration of T cell responses to the S antigen, that was associated with induction of T cell responses to either the Pre-S1 or Pre-S2. So all said, we're very pleased that we were able to really achieve unprecedented results in terms of restoration of both T cell and antibody responses in the majority of patients. Next slide. Jeffrey R. Baxter - VBI Vaccines Inc. - President, CEO & Director Great. Thanks very much, Dave. So just to summarize where we are, and as I said earlier, hepatitis B, given the public health burden, given the growth of hepatitis B, given the fact that symptoms are not always apparent, then this really is a very serious disease, which is increasing the burden on the public health system. So we are really proud and delighted to be part of the potential public health solution. Just to summarize the key milestones, we completed the pivotal registration study. We submitted regulatory approval. We've announced who we're going to commercialize this with, and that's in full swing. We expect to hear in about a year from now feedback from both the European Medicines Agency and the FDA. Now of course, it could be shorter, but we would anticipate hearing that feedback towards the end of next year. As Dave said, with VBI-2601, we achieved this human proof-of-concept, which Dave just presented data from. And great job, Dave, making very complex data sound very simple. There's a lot to it. And we expect the data from the high-dose cohort early in 2021. We're also in discussion with Brii, our partner in Greater China, about what the next phase of clinical development looks like. And of course, that depends upon discussion with the regulatory bodies and are also thinking about other drug modalities to complete steps 1 and 2 that Dave outlined as part of the functional cure. So with that, I'll conclude the slide show presentation and hand back to Steve. QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS Steven James Seedhouse - Raymond James & Associates, Inc., Research Division - Research Analyst Very well. Thank you both, Jeff and David, for the opening remarks. We've, of course, received quite a bit of interest and questions regarding the HBV program. So looking forward to -- with the time we have left, expanding on the discussion here. 5 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 08, 2020 / 4:00PM, VBIV.OQ - VBI Vaccines Inc. - Special Call I think maybe let's start with the prophylactic HBV vaccine program. You've generated over the years a pretty comprehensive safety database both on market in areas of the world and through your Phase III program as well as the efficacy profile that you highlighted vis--vis legacy vaccine Engerix-B. So maybe help us understand how the market is going to view this vaccine of yours fitting in to the landscape in the U.S. and Europe that spans maybe the low-cost legacy vaccines to the newer high-cost premium vaccines. Jeffrey R. Baxter - VBI Vaccines Inc. - President, CEO & Director Sure. So first and foremost, I think it's important for people to understand that it's really exceptional to have such a potent vaccine as Sci-B-Vac to have such a exceptionally clean safety profile. This product has been in over 750,000 individuals in Israel, and as far as we're aware, has proven to be very safe and highly, highly effective. So because we have that real-world data that's built upon, but nonetheless, in the trial, we had over 4,000 people across the 2 studies. We saw no SAEs, certainly no cardiovascular, no autoimmune responses, nothing which would be classed as a significant serious adverse event. But thinking about the efficacy of this product. People have said, this is fantastic that this product is great, where the current standard of care is not, i.e., in older individuals and in immunocompromised. So (inaudible) product? We do not believe it will be. In fact, I believe that because -- and all of our market research prelaunch indicates this that because clinicians are aware that GSK's Engerix-B is largely ineffective in older adults and immunocompromised adults, they generally don't use it. In really important cases, clinicians will use GSK's vaccine up to 6x at double the dose to try and achieve protection against hepatitis B. So as our data shows and as we will have essentially -- as our primary endpoint, we achieved statistical and clinical superiority in 18 to 45-year-olds. So our vaccine will be very effective. And I think that's largely going to be a market expansion upon what we currently see is the adult HBV vaccination market in Northern Europe and North America. But the battleground will be clearly in the 18 to 45-year-olds, with the other 3 licensed vaccines, which are Merck, GSK and Dynavax. But we believe that safety profile and the rapid kinetic seroprotection, greater than 90%, no SAEs and no safety concerns to date that we've ever seen with this product, we believe that and perhaps with a very competitive pricing position versus GSK's Engerix-B, we can be highly competitive and effective in that group. So I hope that answers your question. Steven James Seedhouse - Raymond James & Associates, Inc., Research Division - Research Analyst Yes, it does. And so let me maybe have you quality or crystallize, if I were to ask just sort of low-hanging fruit, middle-hanging fruit, high-hanging fruit in the market that you're entering, could you just bucket those groups in terms of age and subset into those categories so we can understand sort of how this may play out commercially? Jeffrey R. Baxter - VBI Vaccines Inc. - President, CEO & Director Sure. So I think the low-hanging fruit is the over 45-year-old and the immunocompromised. Because I believe with efficacy and our safety data, we can dominate that group and it's largely market expansion to what is the current sales of Engerix-B. The high-hanging fruit will be the battleground in the 18 to 45. But I believe that with our safety profile and with highly competitive pricing alongside GSK's Engerix-B with that 90% protection rate after 2 vaccinations, we can be very competitive. Steven James Seedhouse - Raymond James & Associates, Inc., Research Division - Research Analyst Understood. And so maybe this is a good time to ask about the specifics of the commercial launch, given the recent news the partnership that you've announced with Syneos. You touched on it, of course, in the opening slides. But I want to ask, of course, there's a lot of different directions 6 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 08, 2020 / 4:00PM, VBIV.OQ - VBI Vaccines Inc. - Special Call you can go with a commercial launch in terms of the strategic fit here versus alternative strategies that you could have taken commercially. Maybe start with comments on that. And then just your comfort level with the launch planning that is already underway. And what's still left to be done in the coming year? Jeffrey R. Baxter - VBI Vaccines Inc. - President, CEO & Director Yes. Great question, Steve. So I think I want investors to really clearly understand here that a one-product company of this type of nature, where you have to hit both primary care, secondary care and specialty groups, it is very difficult to consider doing that yourself, because as I mentioned, to go out and recruit 65 people a year before launch as a one-product company is a very, very difficult thing to do. And in fact, we've seen a lot of people struggle with the launches of products in that same situation. I've worked with legacy companies that are within the Syneos umbrella for many, many years now and have been incredibly impressed. In fact, when I was at GSK, we did a lot of work with them. I've been incredibly impressed with their expertise, their experience and the quality of their people. So we've been able to access those people over the last year in the prelaunch phase. And it's been very much a kind of fee-for-service. Now as we get towards launch, we need to start thinking about different, more innovative stars of commercialization model. So that means, for example, that doesn't preclude some other commercialization partnership with a vaccine franchise, which has already got a product marketed. But in this prelaunch phase, it's largely about a fee-for-service. And then when we actually get into launch, then we'll explore various other models. And I'm not saying it'd absolute be with this. But for example, you can do a risk sharing-based model and you can more clearly incentivize people to drive towards a successful launch for a product. We'll also be exploring sharing sales forces with various other vaccine companies, obviously, not directly compete in hepatitis B space. But maybe, say, in the flu space, for example, companies that have an entire sales force dedicated to flu, but don't do anything outside of flu season. So the partnership we've announced today is all about pre-commercialization taking us through to launch and then working with Syneos to find further innovative ways to be highly both promotionally effective and cost effective through development of this innovative model. Steven James Seedhouse - Raymond James & Associates, Inc., Research Division - Research Analyst And I know the specifics of terms of the deal, the economics are undisclosed. But maybe just wanted to ask you generally your comfort level with the economic terms of this deal and where it leaves VBI in terms of strength of positioning. Jeffrey R. Baxter - VBI Vaccines Inc. - President, CEO & Director Sure. So at this point, we're in a sort of fee-for-service. Obviously, I can't disclose the very detailed nature. That people would see it, obviously, as we publish our financial results. But what you can see is equivalent type of companies spending $60 million sometimes and recruiting 65 people, pre-launch, peri-launch in launch phase. I can tell you that our commercialization model probably leads us for at least sort of 2:1 sort of cost benefit ratio compared with some of those models. And that really is about the synergy of working with companies that are doing this multiple times for, Syneos in this case doing it with their other vaccine franchise clients. Steven James Seedhouse - Raymond James & Associates, Inc., Research Division - Research Analyst Terrific. Maybe let's switch in the time we have left to the therapeutic HBV vaccine program. I want to bring you back in here, David. You highlighted some of the data that you recently presented on 2601 with respect to the humoral and the T cell responses. Just generally, maybe to start, what do these early signals tell you about what these patients' immune system is doing in response to your vaccine versus what we've seen in response to traditional HBV therapies? What does this tell you about the efficacy that we could expect downstream from your vaccine? 7 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 08, 2020 / 4:00PM, VBIV.OQ - VBI Vaccines Inc. - Special Call David Evander Anderson - VBI Vaccines Inc. - Chief Scientific Officer Yes. So thanks, Steve. I think it's important to first emphasize that these patients had controlled DNA levels, but that was it. It was otherwise an all-comer study. So we didn't cherry-pick patients that were very early in the disease course or that had very low levels of this tolerizing HBs ANTIGEN. And so in the midst of that, we were able to vaccinate and still overcome that tolerizing agent in the majority of patients. So we're -- as I said, we're sitting on what we think are unprecedented results, particularly with regards to restoration of T cell responses. And that, again, was in the face of uncontrolled HBs Antigen levels. So I think when you think about overall in terms of getting to a functional cure, it's fairly obvious to state that, well, if you vaccinate when you don't have to fight that preexisting circulating HBs Antigen, the immune system might have an even easier chance in a greater number of patients. So it would be obvious to do something like having HBV DNA levels controlled, use a modality that drives down those circulating HBs Antigen levels and then come in with therapeutic vaccination. And this is no great inspiration from us. It's been discussed. There's preclinical data to substantiate the fact that, that combination can lead to sustain control. And so I think we're very excited about putting those pieces together in the near future. And I think we're also very pleased to know that we were able to move so quickly into this trial. We're sitting with this vaccine immunotherapeutic in a Phase II trial. And to be candid, there really aren't a lot of other vaccine immunotherapies out there that can actively and specifically reengage the immune system in these patients. Steven James Seedhouse - Raymond James & Associates, Inc., Research Division - Research Analyst And one question that's come in, and you alluded to this in your prepared remarks, but -- and we've talked about this, of course, recently as well. But the question is, can you provide any context on how previous attempts at reactivating the immune system for chronic hep B patients have performed in terms of antibody or T cell activity, so Specifically Engerix-B or other S1, Pre-S1 antigen-based vaccine therapeutics maybe to help us just contextualize how these data for 2601 stack up against what we know from previous attempts? Jeffrey R. Baxter - VBI Vaccines Inc. - President, CEO & Director Yes. No, it's an important question. So I think there was a study published over 10 years ago now by GSK. They had a vaccine approach. They were able to induce antibodies or restore antibodies to HBs Antigen, but really didn't spend much time and saw very little evidence in the small number of patients they examined in terms of restoration T cell responses. Probably more relevant one is based on a vaccine that was being developed by GlobeImmune a few years ago. They ran a Phase I study with their vaccine, and they were able to induce robust T cell responses against HBs Antigen in healthy individuals. They then tested in about a dozen chronically infected HBV patients. And in no instance were they able to restore T cell responses against HBs Antigen. So I think that's what gives us a lot of confidence in what we've achieved in the study. Steven James Seedhouse - Raymond James & Associates, Inc., Research Division - Research Analyst Understood. And maybe then a forward-looking question. So as you think about next steps, potential combinations that you might consider for the next phase of study, testing other adjuvants, all these different types of things that you could contemplate with this program, what should we expect or what should investors expect over the coming 12 months, let's say, or beyond? 8 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 08, 2020 / 4:00PM, VBIV.OQ - VBI Vaccines Inc. - Special Call Jeffrey R. Baxter - VBI Vaccines Inc. - President, CEO & Director Yes. So I think as I've already intimated, it would make most sense to add in a modality, which can drive down HBs Antigen levels. And therein, we're again very excited, because there are at least half a dozen groups, through using different approaches, have demonstrated clinically that they can do just that. Now it's unclear at this point if one really rises above the other. They've all shown the ability to drive down those levels by orders of magnitude. And so I think it's a very exciting time for us to be able to be contemplating moving forward in combinations. Steven James Seedhouse - Raymond James & Associates, Inc., Research Division - Research Analyst Okay. Great. Well, listen, it's been exciting to follow the progress that you guys have made in the time that we've been covering the company, and of course, long before that, in the HBV program, and frankly, across the platform and other programs we didn't discuss today. Looking forward to following, of course, progress in the coming year in 2021. Just want to thank you both for doing this and for elaborating on all the developments in HBV. And for everyone on the line, thanks for joining us. Happy holidays. Be safe. And we'll talk to you all soon. Jeffrey R. Baxter - VBI Vaccines Inc. - President, CEO & Director Great. Great. Thanks very much. David Evander Anderson - VBI Vaccines Inc. - Chief Scientific Officer Thank you, Steve. Steven James Seedhouse - Raymond James & Associates, Inc., Research Division - Research Analyst Thank you. DISCLAIMER Refinitiv reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes. In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized. THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES REFINITIV OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS. 2020, Refinitiv. All Rights Reserved. 13537598-2020-12-08T17:45:58.080 9 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 08, 2020 / 4:00PM, VBIV.OQ - VBI Vaccines Inc. - Special Call
REFINITIV STREETEVENTS EDITED TRANSCRIPT CRIS.OQ - Curis Inc Virtual KOL Event - Reviewing CA-4948 Clinical Data in NHL & AML/MDS EVENT DATE/TIME: DECEMBER 08, 2020 / 1:00PM GMT REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS James E. Dentzer Curis, Inc. - President, CEO & Director Robert E. Martell Curis, Inc. - Head of Research & Development CONFERENCE CALL PARTICIPANTS Amit Verma PRESENTATION James E. Dentzer - Curis, Inc. - President, CEO & Director Good morning everyone, and welcome to our Virtual Key Opinion Leader call to discuss clinical data on our first-in-class IRAK4 inhibitor, CA-4948. 12 months ago, we outlined our goals for 2020 to provide data updates from both of our ongoing clinical trials of CA-4948. Today, we're excited to provide these updates. For the NHL study, in a presentation yesterday at ASH, we formally identified our recommended Phase II dose, which has demonstrated tumor reduction in 6 of 7 patients and robust tolerability up to 2 years. All of this in single-agent therapy in a heavily pretreated patient population. These are patients who enrolled in our study after feeling on average 4 prior lines of treatment with other therapies. In addition, we are especially excited about the identification of 2 new biomarkers, which we expect will help us with patient selection and enrichment as we advance into the combination study of CA-4948 with ibrutinib. For the AML and MDS study, we are highly encouraged by the data released an hour ago. While we are still in the early days of the study, just the first 6 patients, we're very excited about what we're seeing. In monotherapy and in a late-line relapsed/refractory patient population, all 6 patients have seen a reduction in blast counts. 2 of these patients have already achieved a marrow complete response. Excitement both at the company and among our investigators is very high. Dr. Bob Martell, our Head of R&D, is joining me on the call this morning, and will be reviewing clinical data from both of these studies in more detail. Additionally, we are honored to have Dr. Amit Verma joining us this morning. Dr. Verma is Professor of Medicine Oncology at Albert Einstein College of Medicine and Director of the MDS program, at Montefiore Medical center in New York. Dr. Verma serves as one of the primary investigators on our CA-4948 Phase I study in AML and MDS. This morning, Dr. Verma will be discussing his view of the current AML/MDS landscape as well as summarizing the preclinical data for CA-4948 in AML and MDS. Following the clinical data update, we will remain on the line for a question-and-answer period. I'd like to note that during the call, we'll be making forward-looking statements, which are based on our current expectations and beliefs. These statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties, and actual results may differ materially. For additional detail, please see our SEC filings. I'd now like to turn the call over to our Head of R&D, Dr. Bob Martell. Bob? Robert E. Martell - Curis, Inc. - Head of Research & Development Thanks, Jim. Good morning, everybody. I'm really excited today to talk about the clinical data and some of the biomarker data that we have. So first, I'll start with the mechanism of action for 4948. In particular, this is really focused on NF-kappaB. As you know, NF-kappaB is a dominant driver of proliferation and survival in B-cell malignancies. And also a master regulator of inflammatory cytokines that are important in myelogenous leukemias. This slide represents the 2 main pathways in cancer that drive NF-kappaB. The BTK pathway on the left and the TLR signaling pathway on the right. Now the BTK pathway, as you know, is fairly well covered by current therapies, including BTK inhibitors such as ibrutinib. There are 2 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 08, 2020 / 1:00PM, CRIS.OQ - Curis Inc Virtual KOL Event - Reviewing CA-4948 Clinical Data in NHL & AML/MDS no approved therapies right now that really control the TLR pathway signaling to NF-kappaB. And that's where we focused our efforts on drug development. In particular, we focused in on the Myddosome, which is a complex through which virtually a high number and percentage of signaling is traveling to activate NF-kappaB. In particular, IRAK4 is a serine/threonine kinase that is required for Myddosome signaling to reach NF-kappaB. And we've developed a highly specific and potent inhibitor of IRAK4 that we have brought into the clinic, and that's what we're going to be talking about today. This inhibitor in preclinical models can basically shut down the signaling to NF-kappaB by over 90%. This target, IRAK4 is extremely interesting and has caught the interest of the National Cancer Institute. And they become extremely excited about this. And as we mentioned recently, in a recent announcement, the NCI has chosen the Curis drug, CA-4948 as the IRAK4 inhibitor that they will investigate. Next slide. So to get into the clinical studies that we've run, first, I'm going to focus on lymphoma. Now lymphoma, as I mentioned, is driven by these 2 pathways, in particular by the TLR pathway as well in terms of NF-kappaB. This particular study is a Phase I dose escalating trial that started at a dose of 50 milligrams daily. Throughout the trial, we escalated dosing to 400 milligrams twice daily, that's a 16-fold increase in terms of the overall dose for patients. We found that the patients treated on the study were quite elderly with a median age of 69 years. We have a variety of malignancies. Importantly, as Jim mentioned already, these patients have highly refractory disease, in fact, a median of 4 prior lines of therapy. On the study, we've had 2 patients who have had MYD88 positive disease. Next slide. So I'd like to shift -- and before I actually get into the clinical data, talk a little bit about the biomarker data that we've got. So biomarkers, as you know, are very important for verifying target ambition and also potentially for enriching a patient population. The first biomarker that I'd like to talk to is actually NF-kappaB itself. So the P50 subunit of NF-kappaB when phosphorylated represents activation of NF-kappaB. So this is interesting because if we might hypothesize that if NF-kappaB is active, we might think that our drug could have effectiveness. On the other hand if NF-kappaB is not active in the first place, this might be a population that may not benefit from our drug. And so potentially an enrichment strategy could be developed from that. Also, it might be an excellent way to determine whether or not we're hitting the target. In other words, we can monitor this during treatment to see if our drug is inhibiting this downstream target. The second major biomarker that I'd like to talk to you about today is MYD88. When mutated, this protein actually causes constitutive activation of the Myddosome and activation of NF-kappaB regardless of the upstream signaling. And this is actually pathognomonic of certain malignancies and may be a great way to enrich for patients likely to respond to CA-4948. Next slide. So the next slide starts to show some early biomarker data from our Phase I patients. First, let me talk about the P50 biomarker. And this is the panel on the left here. This shows a picture of 2 tumors stained for phospho-P50 biomarker. The left tumor shows negligible staining, while the right has positive staining. We actually have data from 14 patients early in the study, half it turns out were negative for staining for phospho-P50 and half were positive. And below, we've shown the patients in terms of their best response on study. And you can see that all 7 of the patients who had negative staining for phospho-p50 had progressive disease as their best response on study. In contrast, although one of the patients who had positive staining at baseline had either tumor shrinkage or stable disease on study. So this suggests this could be a potential enrichment marker for selecting patients although the data right now, we would think are not quite mature enough. Because most of these patients, as I mentioned, were early on the study, had suboptimal dosing. We did have 3 patients who were actually treated at the 300-milligram twice daily dosing, where we did have pre-treatment biopsies. And the correlation was actually perfect, 2 of the patients had negative staining at baseline, and both of those patients had progression on study. And one of the patients had positive staining at 300, and that patient had a significant tumor reduction with a durable duration on study and well tolerated. 3 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 08, 2020 / 1:00PM, CRIS.OQ - Curis Inc Virtual KOL Event - Reviewing CA-4948 Clinical Data in NHL & AML/MDS Let me shift to the right bottom panel, here this demonstrates clear inhibition of the target by 4948. So this patient had a biopsy right before they started treatment with 4948. And then after 3 weeks of treatment, they had another biopsy of their tumor. And you can see that the 4948 completely inhibited the NF-kappaB signal. And this is exactly what we're looking for to demonstrate that CA-4948 is effective at inhibiting IRAK4. Actually, before we switch to the next slide, let me just highlight also that MYD88, as I mentioned, is the other biomarker that we're very interested in. So 2 patients on study so far have had mutated MYD88, and actually, both of those patients had tumor burden reduction on study. So 2 out of 2 have had tumor reduction with MYD88 mutation. Next slide. And so this next slide actually shows one of those patients. This patient actually came on very early in the study at a quite low dose of 50 milligrams. And they had stabilization of their disease, maybe some reduction in their tumor burden, they're in spike. But per protocol, they were able to escalate as we cleared higher doses. And at each dose escalation, we saw a further reduction in the tumor burden. In fact, by the time they got to 300 milligrams twice daily, the patient achieved a PR with more than 50% reduction, in fact, 67% reduction so far. This patient is continuing on study. They've had a dramatic improvement in their symptoms from their disease and is doing quite well currently. Now 2 years on study. Next slide. So as I mentioned, this is a dose escalating study with our goal of trying to identify a recommended Phase II dose. So we've determined that based on the tolerability and the anticancer activity that the optimal dosing in this lymphoma population is 300 milligrams twice daily. And I kind of illustrated that here with the blue bars, which are patients who are treated at the 300-milligram twice daily dose. And you can see that the majority of these patients, 6 out of 7 evaluable patients here had reduction in their tumor. And again, I'd like to illustrate and point out these were highly refractory patients. So we're talking a single oral agent achieving really nice tumor reductions. Next slide. This slide provides similar data and a more focused data set on the 300-milligram twice daily patient population. Here, you can see the durability in the course throughout their therapy in terms of their tumor burden. 3 of these patients have actually been treated for a year longer and the majority of them are actually still ongoing on their therapy as is illustrated by the dotted lines here. Now I'd just like to take this moment to emphasize, again, at our recommended Phase II dose, we're seeing this level of anticancer activity, again, pointing out highly refractory patient population, oral drug, single drug. The population is actually here unselected. So we haven't yet gone down and started to select for p50, for example. Patients found as to be well tolerated. I think an important point is that there's minimal myelosuppression with this drug. So that's really important as we think about combining this drug with other therapies that may have some myelosuppression. It is to be determined, yes, since we only have 2 patients with MYD88 mutation, for example, whether this could serve as a single agent registrational strategy, but we do feel that it is a very solid foundation for going forward with combinations. So let me switch to the next slide. And this is the basis for our combination approach, which we're actually going to start a clinical study within the next quarter, early 2021. But here, what I'd like to remind you is the 2 key pathways, regulating NF-kappaB, the TLR pathway, and the BTK pathway. So ibrutinib, as you know, targets the BTK pathway, 4948 is really the first legitimate IRAK4 inhibitor to be able to target the TLR pathway. So I'm showing an experiment here, what I'm actually not showing here is the monotherapy of 4948 going to the maximal optimal dose in this model. 4948 can almost completely inhibit tumor growth by itself. Here, we've used a lower dose of 4948 to be able to illustrate the synergy between these 2 molecules. And you can see at that dose, there's modest reduction in the tumor burden, but it really illustrates the ability of adding these 2 drugs together, can show a significant decrease in the tumor growth. Now we're really excited about this. We think this is going to be an optimal combination targeting both of these parallel pathways. And so as I mentioned, we're working really hard with our investigators to get this study open and started in the first quarter. So at that point, I'd like to pause because that's -- that completes my summary of the lymphoma data and hand it over to Dr. Amit Verma to give an introduction on our AML/MDS efforts. Amit? 4 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 08, 2020 / 1:00PM, CRIS.OQ - Curis Inc Virtual KOL Event - Reviewing CA-4948 Clinical Data in NHL & AML/MDS Amit Verma Thank you, Bob. Next slide. So acute myeloid leukemia and myelodysplastic syndrome are diseases that are characterized by dismal outcomes, especially in the elderly. And these diseases, especially MDS, don't have generally curable curative therapies. The only curative therapy for MDS is an allogeneic stem cell transplant. And these are diseases of the elderly, which makes it tough to do allogeneic transplants for these diseases. The current treatments available and approved by the FDA for MDS include lenalidomide, which is only used for patients with 5q deletion; and hypomethylating agents, which include azacitidine, decitabine and an oral version of recently approved decitabine with a CD inhibitor. There is also a recent drug luspatercept that's approved for treatment of anemia in low-risk MDS. But that's about the limited number of drugs that are approved for this tough disease. AML has more drugs that have been approved for treatment. And recently, we've had FLT3 inhibitors, IDH inhibitors, and chemotherapeutic regimens that have been approved. But still, the outcomes remain not very desirable, especially when we deal with AML and MDS in the elderly. So IRAK4 represents a novel therapeutic target in these diseases. And this is a research that we have done in our lab in collaboration in Dr. Dan Starczynowski at Cincinnati and Dr. Boultwood at Oxford. We showed that IRAK4 can exist in 2 major isoforms: One is the IRAK4-long, which is the active full-length isoform of this serine/threonine kinase. And then there is a shorter isoform, which lacks an important part of this enzyme called the death domain. So the shorter isoform cannot transduce signals from the surface of the cell from toll-like receptors down to NF-kappaB, which Bob had talked about in the previous slides. And when we looked at RNA-Seq data from AML samples in the tumor consortium TCGA, we found that in AMLs, the ratio of the active long isoform to the inactive short isoform was more than 1.25 in more than 50% of AML samples. So basically, what I'm saying is that AMLs, the majority of AMLs, have more of the active long isoform versus the inactive short isoform. And when we look at normal hematopoietic stem cells, we find that these cells have more of the short isoform and less of the long isoform. So we have over activation of the active isoform of IRAK in MDS and AML samples. So this is not a mutation. This is an active isoform. And when we compare it to traditional mutations that are seen in AML, for example, FLT3 is seen in about 1/3 of cases, and then there are a lot of epigenetic mutations like TED, DNMT, IDH and so on and so forth. When we look at MDS, the major group of genes that are mutated in MDS include splicing proteins. Next slide, please. So the reason splicing proteins become important in the IRAK pathways, they are the 2 major splicing proteins that are mutated in MDS, are SF3B1 and U2AF1. So invert that I previously mentioned with Dr. Dan Starczynowski that was published last year, we showed that when you have this U2AF1 splicing mutation in hematopoietic cells, this splicing mutation leads to overproduction of the active form of IRAK, the IRAK long isoform. We also have shown that the other splicing mutation, the SF3B1 also leads to overexpression of the long active isoform of IRAK4. So we have shown a link between a splicing mutation that's commonly seen in MDS and less commonly in AML; two an overexpression and activation of the IRAK innate immune signaling pathway. Furthermore, we showed with a variety of experiments that when we block IRAK4-L either with genetic means or with CA-4948 in cell lines as well as patient-derived xenograft models, we can inhibit the MDS and AML malignant clones by inhibiting IRAK kinase. So the panel on the left shows an example of leukemic colonies, where we genetically knock down IRAK4, and we see a nice significant reduction in leukemic colony growth. And on the right side, the panel basically shows immunodeficient mice, where we xenograft MDS and AML samples and follow them over the course of time after dosing with CA-4948. And as compared to vehicle controls, the IRAK4 inhibitor leads to a reduction of the malignant clone in immunodeficient mice. So these data point to the potential of inhibiting IRAK4 in these 2 diseases and provided the preclinical rationale for the clinical trial testing CA-4948 in MDS and AML, the clinical trial that Bob will show you initial results from was done in a relapsed/refractory setting, which is a particularly bad prognostic group of MDS and AML. 5 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 08, 2020 / 1:00PM, CRIS.OQ - Curis Inc Virtual KOL Event - Reviewing CA-4948 Clinical Data in NHL & AML/MDS To give you an example, when patients with MDS become relapsed or refractory to hypomethylating agents, there have been a multitude of studies that have shown that they have a dismal overall survival. We are talking of overall survival less than a year as seen by multiple groups. So this is a tough patient population with not too many therapeutic options. Next slide. So now I hand it over to Bob to tell you the results of the preliminary clinical trial results. Robert E. Martell - Curis, Inc. - Head of Research & Development Thank you, Amit. Appreciate it. So we are extremely excited to present the early exciting preliminary data here today for the AML/MDS study that Amit mentioned. So if you go to the next slide. So this, again, it's a Phase I study. It's a 3-plus-3 dose escalating design. We're actually able to start at the 200-milligram twice daily dose based on our lymphoma experience that I just described. The population here, as you can see, is quite elderly with a median age of 72. And also, as Amit mentioned, heavily pretreated. The median number of prior therapies was 3. It was distributed between 4 AML patients and 2 MDS patients. And both of these MDS patients were actually high risk MDS. The study has escalated quite quickly. We actually went through the 200-milligram dose level with 3 patients. No DLTs were seen there. So we were able to escalate up to 300 milligrams twice daily. Again, we enrolled 4 patients there, and none of them had a dose-limiting toxicity. So we're currently escalated in treating patients at 400 milligrams twice daily. So the study is ongoing. And on the next slide, I'd like to show some of the early results. So as Jim mentioned, basically, of the patients who -- of the 5 patients who were morphologically evaluable for blast reduction, all of those patients had a significant blast reduction, which is quite striking. And in fact, already 2 of these patients have achieved marrow CR, bringing their blasts back into the normal range, although one of these patients is continuing on therapy. So this has been extremely well tolerated. We're extremely encouraged by this finding and look forward to continuing on with this study in identifying a recommended Phase II dose here, expanding, getting more information. And also, as Amit mentioned, thinking about particular patient populations that within this group might be subsets that are extremely sensitive, for example, patients with splices on mutations or patients with overexpression on the IRAK4 long form. So I'd like to just finish by putting this into context, so -- and emphasizing that. So Amit mentioned, this is an extremely difficult-to-treat disease, especially when the patients are refractory like this. We're still in the dose-finding phase of this study and have already seen this impressive data. Again, this is an oral drug, which is great for elderly frail population. It minimizes the visits to the hospital, allows patients to be treated much more efficiently. Single agent, historically, single agents really don't work well at all in these diseases. And I think finally an important point that I also made with lymphoma, but I think it's really important here, and that is that there is minimal myelosuppression with this drug. And this disease, in general, is characterized by myelosuppression in the first place. And a lot of the therapies that you utilize to treat the disease cause myelosuppression themselves. So this represents an ideal opportunity for a combination as well in these difficult-to-treat patients. So again, we're extremely excited, but preliminary and look forward to advancing this study. Let me hand it back to Jim to finish up the call. James E. Dentzer - Curis, Inc. - President, CEO & Director Excellent. Thank you, Bob. So we're going to head into the Q&A session. And if you have any questions, please raise your hand in the software, several of our analysts have dialed in. So as you submit your questions, we'll be able to see them. I will then read them for the audience, and then I'll direct the appropriate person to answer the question. 6 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 08, 2020 / 1:00PM, CRIS.OQ - Curis Inc Virtual KOL Event - Reviewing CA-4948 Clinical Data in NHL & AML/MDS QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS James E. Dentzer - Curis, Inc. - President, CEO & Director So the first question is from Yale Jen at Laidlaw. He's asking, in the NHL study, are there -- have there been any patients that have been treated with ibrutinib beforehand and failed? And then second, in the AML and MDS study, have the long spliced IRAK4 form being -- have a -- I guess it's a question about the long isoform of IRAK4. Have we seen any of those patients so far? So Bob, actually, I'll point to you for those. Robert E. Martell - Curis, Inc. - Head of Research & Development Yes. So for the NHL study, we have had several patients who have been treated with ibrutinib before. In general for many of the NHL patients that have come on to the study though, probably the majority have not been treated by ibrutinib. The second question related to the long-form of IRAK4, this is a really important question that we're asking, and Dr. Verma is here working closely with us as well to help understand the levels of that in our patient population. We're working right now to evaluate and confirm that. Those data will be presented at a future presentation. James E. Dentzer - Curis, Inc. - President, CEO & Director Okay. Thanks, Bob. So next question is coming from Alethia Young at Cantor. Why do you think -- why do you need to think about a subgroup if you're seeing activity that looks so broad-based across the population. And frankly, I don't know, Bob, if you want to start that but maybe Amit can chime in on that, too, because that was really his research. Robert E. Martell - Curis, Inc. - Head of Research & Development So I'll start. And you may be right. And hopefully, we may be able to see enough activity in unselected patients to achieve registrational strategy here, but we still also have the option of looking at a more focused population if a subset is extremely sensitive to the drug. As -- and I'll let Amit comment as well, but we don't know -- we know that the long-form of IRAK4 is present in a broad spectrum of these diseases. We don't know exactly where the right cutoff might be, maybe even a larger population. But Amit, why don't you comment on that? Amit Verma Yes. Thanks, Bob. So it's an interesting question. We do see the long isoform in SF3B1 and U2AF1 mutants. But we also see the long isoform in other subgroups of AML and MDS that don't have splicing mutations. And we do not know the exact answer of why certain cases have it and certain cases don't. It seems to be -- isoforms are governed by alterations in RNA-binding proteins and the splicing machinery is actually composed of numerous proteins that could be audited. So we are still trying to find answers why non-splicing mutant AMLs and MDS can also have overexpression of the long isoform, but we do see it. James E. Dentzer - Curis, Inc. - President, CEO & Director Yes. One of the things I'll add to that also Alethia, is we're learning a lot more about the IRAK4 expression, as Dr. Verma indicated. But also recall that the drug targets for 3 as well. So that could also be part of the story. But we are very pleasantly surprised to find that we had such a broad-based look in the data, such a great response among the patient population. As I go further down, this is another question from Alethia Young. And Amit this one is for you. Is there any hypothesis around potential durability based on your modeling? 7 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 08, 2020 / 1:00PM, CRIS.OQ - Curis Inc Virtual KOL Event - Reviewing CA-4948 Clinical Data in NHL & AML/MDS Amit Verma Yes. So far, our experiments, preclinical experiments have been restricted to a lot of in-vitro experiments in cell lines as well as primary patient samples. And also some patient-derived xenografts with MDS and AML, primary samples, which are extremely tough to do because these cells don't survive that well in mice, in foreign environments in the mice. But from our published data, we saw quite a significant reduction in inhibition of the malignant clone. And that's all we can sort of conclude right now. It seems like a good target. It seems like the drug works in-vitro as well as in-vivo. One more thing that I can actually add to this is, in terms of durability and resistance mechanisms, there was a very nice study published by Dr. Dan Starczynowski in Science Translational Medicine last year, where he showed that IRAK4 can be an escape mechanism for resistance against FLT3 inhibitors. So that study, again, hints at the important role of this pathway in leading to recovery or resistance of sales from other agents. So that's how we know right now. James E. Dentzer - Curis, Inc. - President, CEO & Director Okay. Excellent. Thank you. We also have a question from Soumit Roy at JonesTrading. This is a question really for Bob. What kind of response or blast reduction would you see in ibrutinib in phospho-p50 positive patients? Robert E. Martell - Curis, Inc. - Head of Research & Development Yes. Thanks, Soumit. That's a really great question. And actually, the answer is, not really known. The use of p50 as a potential biomarker for ibrutinib is not well characterized. We do know that p50 -- phospho-p50, obviously, the in cart of NF-kappaB is a key indicator of activity of NF-kappaB, but this particular biomarker hasn't been well characterized. James E. Dentzer - Curis, Inc. - President, CEO & Director And I would add to that, Soumit, so remember, the idea is that both pathways, both BTK inhibitors and IRAK4 inhibitors, the toll-like receptor pathway, are really coming at NF-kappaB from a different place, but they should be additive. So our hope would be going into combo therapy that, yes, as we can show so far in our data, we're hitting those patients that have flagged positive for phospho-p50. We expect that there would also be an additive effect by adding BTK to that, so that the 2 together would mirror what we saw preclinically, which is both of them together should be better than either on its own. The next question is coming from Alethia Young at Cantor. Any difference with the activity between AML and MDS patients? Robert E. Martell - Curis, Inc. - Head of Research & Development Yes. So let me start, and then I'd actually like Dr. Verma to opine on this question. So we did see both the MDS patients and the AML patients with blast reduction. So I think we would expect to see activity in both. As Amit mentioned, the IRAK4-L is prominent in both of these groups of malignancies. But let me hand it over to you, Amit. Amit Verma Yes. Yes. Bon is correct, this pathway, and DLR MYD88 and NF-kappaB IRAK pathway seems to be active in both AML and MDS. So preclinically, we see pretty significant activity with either genetic or pharmacological inhibition of this pathway. The clinical results, I guess, it's early days for the clinical trial. It looks very encouraging. But as the trial accrues more patients, I think, we will see if there's any differences between AML and MDS. I guess it's too early to say right now. 8 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 08, 2020 / 1:00PM, CRIS.OQ - Curis Inc Virtual KOL Event - Reviewing CA-4948 Clinical Data in NHL & AML/MDS James E. Dentzer - Curis, Inc. - President, CEO & Director So the next question is from Chad Messer at Needham. So he's asking -- and Bob, this is a question for you. Do we know what the biomarker status is for the Waldenstrom patient who got the dose escalations? Robert E. Martell - Curis, Inc. - Head of Research & Development Yes. So in terms of the MYD88, yes, this patient was positive for MYD88 mutation. As I mentioned, there were 2 patients that were positive for MYD88, and both of them had a tumor reduction. This one patient with the Waldenstroms is the one that I showed in detail. We actually did not have a -- archival tumor sample, enough tumor sample to test the p50 in this case, although we would expect that to be strongly positive based on our understanding of MYD88 activation of this pathway. James E. Dentzer - Curis, Inc. - President, CEO & Director Yes, it's a point, we're taking 2 points there, Chad. On the 2 biomarkers, phospho-p50 and MYD88. In phospho-p50, roughly half of the patients have had samples gathered so far and tested. Obviously, most of those are going to be at the very low doses. We were encouraged that even in low doses, phospho-p50 looked to be quite predictive. But if your phospho-p50 was not active, meaning NF-kappaB was probably not playing as key a role in your disease, those patients all progressed, 7 out of 7. On the other hand, even at low doses, if you were positive for p50 and it was playing a role in your disease, even at low doses, the drug was having an impact that 6 of the 7 of those had tumor shrinkage or stable disease. Obviously, that was very exciting, early days. On MYD88, it is even more strong, but it's -- they're only 2 of them. So we want to be careful not to make too much of that biomarker, but it is exactly what we would have expected based on the scientific thesis. That is that if you can block the TLR Myddosome axis of that pathway driving NF-kappaB, you should be able to provide some patient benefits. So we were very pleased that it seems to be so clear in the 2 patients that were MYD88 positive. Question. Let's see, another question from Chad at Needham. What does NHL dosing data 300 milligrams at the recommended Phase II dose tell us about MDS or AML, if anything? Is there anything you learned from that NHL data that were announced yesterday that translates through a read-through to what we saw today? Robert E. Martell - Curis, Inc. - Head of Research & Development Yes, potentially, I mean, it gives us some guidance in terms of where we may end up with dosing. I wanted to point out, though, that in the AML/MDS population, these patients, again, extremely difficult to treat. And we do know that there is a significant dose dependence here. And that's why we have continued to dose escalate based on the fact that we had no dose-limiting toxicities at 300 out of 4 patients. And so it's possible that we'll end up with a different recommended Phase II dose for the AML/MDS population. But I think it does give us some guidance as to where we may end up. And honestly, it gives you a sense for the fact that we're probably already fairly close to our recommended Phase II dose with the AML/MDS population since we've already explored that dose to some extent in this group of patients. And I think we're nearing final stages of honing on where we might end up. James E. Dentzer - Curis, Inc. - President, CEO & Director Yes. And let me add to that as well, Bob. I think when you look at the 2 data sets in aggregate, there are a couple of messages that you can take home. Of course, the NHL data set was dosed in dose escalation. So there were a lot of subtherapeutic doses before we got to the range of 300, where we saw 6 of 7 patients doing well. And then, of course, in AML and MDS, we started at the therapeutic dosing. But the 2 combined, the data so far suggests what we were hoping, which is, it appears as though the drug is hitting the target period. And that the target matters. If you can 9 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 08, 2020 / 1:00PM, CRIS.OQ - Curis Inc Virtual KOL Event - Reviewing CA-4948 Clinical Data in NHL & AML/MDS hit that target and turn down IRAK4, you're going to have a very positive impact on tumors. We see that in the NHL data. And of course, we see that even more strongly in the AML/MDS data because, of course, we've been dosing at therapeutic doses from the get-go. But the 2 in combination for us give us a great deal of optimism. And as Bob said, the biomarkers moving forward, allow us to really enrich the population of patients, both clinically and frankly, hopefully, at some point, commercially, will allow us to enrich that patient population and determine and advance which patients will be amenable to IRAK4 therapy. The next question is coming from Ed White at H.C. Wainwright. This question is for you, Bob, why did one patient leave the AML study? And when would we start planning to enrich the NHL study for biomarkers? This is a longer set of questions. Could the enrichment -- and you've got a lot of questions. Could the enrichment be part of the current study? Or would you need to initiate a new study for that? And then lastly, what would you need to see in Phase I that would give you confidence in starting a Phase II? And when could a Phase II monotherapy study begin? So Bob, I'll hand it to you. Robert E. Martell - Curis, Inc. - Head of Research & Development Yes. So we haven't released extended details on the patients in the AML study. So I'm not going to comment on that. So basically, the -- as I mentioned, all of the patients but one is ongoing, and all of them have had very good tolerability as well as minimal, if any, myelosuppression. So I think that's all I'll comment on that for now. We'll give much more detail on this at upcoming presentations. The second question, enrichment strategy is part of the current study or initiating a new study. So that's a great question actually for either of the studies. Right now, we're collecting information, as I mentioned already about a couple of biomarkers that could be potential enrichment strategies. One that we feel very encouraged by is the MYD88 mutation. So far, we don't have a lot of patients there, but this really fits that hypothesis of patient selection and in terms of expanding that study, we're currently expanding it. And in particular, focusing on populations that have MYD88 mutations. And so that is one way that we are starting to enrich this. It's possible also that we could launch a separate study that would target that population specifically, but that hasn't been started yet. And yes, I think that addresses the question. Do you want to add anything, Jim? James E. Dentzer - Curis, Inc. - President, CEO & Director No. I thought that was really well said. Yes, I just hammer home. We all agree. We're very pleased with the data set that we see so far. Obviously, it's early days in both studies, but these preliminary data really seem to fit well with what we were expecting. And in fact, AML/MDS, it was even better than we were hoping, which is great. Another question from Soumit Roy, JonesTrading. Do you envision a triple combo with ibrutinib, lenalidomide, 4948? Or is there something about the safety profile that wouldn't allow a triple combination? Robert E. Martell - Curis, Inc. - Head of Research & Development Yes. Let me comment on that. So I think very possible. There are some data that the combination with these with an IRAK4 targeting maybe beneficial. We're going to start with the double combination, as I mentioned, based on the rationale that these are 2 parallel pathways that are really the key areas responsible for NF-kappaB activity. But our overall development certainly could consider a triple combination. As I mentioned, the safety profile of this drug could certainly allow that. James E. Dentzer - Curis, Inc. - President, CEO & Director Okay. Excellent. I'm looking down the list, making sure that we've answered a lot of the questions. So a lot of the questions are asking some of the similar questions that we've heard before. 10 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 08, 2020 / 1:00PM, CRIS.OQ - Curis Inc Virtual KOL Event - Reviewing CA-4948 Clinical Data in NHL & AML/MDS No. I think we've got it. So I think with that, why don't we end the Q&A session. I'd like to again take the opportunity to thank the team, thank the patients who have enrolled in this, and the clinical investigators who have been involved. I think our partners at Aurigene for helping us with this study and get to this point. It's a very happy day for Curis, a very happy day for the patients on the drug. And a special thanks to Dr. Verma, who's groundbreaking research last year that was published has really turned out to be an area of great excitement for us and for patients. So thank you, everybody. Have a terrific day. Thank you for joining us. Amit Verma Thank you. DISCLAIMER Refinitiv reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes. In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized. THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES REFINITIV OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS. 2020, Refinitiv. All Rights Reserved. 13537645-2020-12-08T15:42:21.747 11 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 08, 2020 / 1:00PM, CRIS.OQ - Curis Inc Virtual KOL Event - Reviewing CA-4948 Clinical Data in NHL & AML/MDS
REFINITIV STREETEVENTS EDITED TRANSCRIPT LSPD.TO - Lightspeed POS Inc on How Lightspeed Technology is Driving the Future of Commerce EVENT DATE/TIME: DECEMBER 15, 2020 / 5:00PM GMT REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS Gus Papageorgiou James Greco PRESENTATION Gus Papageorgiou Good afternoon, everyone, and welcome to our webinar today. I've been receiving a lot of requests for product demos. And over the next hour, we hope to show you how Lightspeed Solutions helps entrepreneurs manage and eventually grow their business. Our product suite is pretty comprehensive, but for the interest of time, we're going to try to keep it at under an hour. So before we start, I'm going to read the legal disclaimer. We may make forward-looking statements on our call today that are based on assumptions and therefore, subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected. We undertake no obligation to update these statements, except as required by law. You can read about these risks and uncertainties in our filings with U.S. and Canadian securities regulators. Our comments today may include adjusted financial measures, which are non-IFRS measures. These should be considered as a supplement to and not a substitute for IFRS financial measures. Reconciliations between the two can be found on our earnings press releases, which are available on our website, on sedar.com and on the SEC's EDGAR system. And final note that because we report in U.S. dollars, all amounts discussed today are in U.S. dollars unless otherwise stated. So joining me today is going to be James Greco, our Team Lead for Sales Engineering. James, thanks for joining us today. James Greco Gus, thanks for inviting me. Super excited to be here. Gus Papageorgiou Before we get started, I just want to go through some important information about the webinar. First of all, please note that the webinar will be recorded and available on our investor -- on the Investor section of our website. It's scheduled to last 1 hour, including questions and answers. If you have any questions, feel free to submit them in the questions box in your control panel, which should be in your bottom right hand side, I think. And we'll do our best to answer them at the end of the webinar. And just in terms of today's agenda, James is going to take you through a demo of Lightspeed Retail and then he's going to go through Lightspeed Restaurant, and then we'll take questions. I'm sure that most of you are familiar with our company, but for those that are not, Lightspeed is a modern cloud-based commerce platform that helps entrepreneurs run their small to medium-sized businesses. We allow business owners to sell across mobile channels both physical, digital, manage their operations, engage with consumers, manage multiple locations and eventually grow their business through offerings like Lightspeed POS, Lightspeed Loyalty, Lightspeed Analytics, Lightspeed Payments, Lightspeed Capital and Lightspeed E-Commerce Solutions. With that, I'm going to hand it over to James to kick off the demos. James, take it away. 2 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 15, 2020 / 5:00PM, LSPD.TO - Lightspeed POS Inc on How Lightspeed Technology is Driving the Future of Commerce James Greco Awesome. So like Gus mentioned, we're going to start with a demonstration of Lightspeed Retail. So during the presentation, I think we're going to really try to highlight a couple of different areas that really set Lightspeed apart. These 3 main areas, first one focusing around the costing and inventory management. That's a popular thing within Lightspeed and why merchants come to us. The other one is complex workflows and customization around that. And the last one here is kind of this all-in-one suite. So everything from your e-comm, to your payments, to your retail, to all kinds of other add-ons that allow you to kind of get everything you need under one roof is kind of what makes Lightspeed so special and why customers come to us. So you'll see a lot of this during the presentation, and I'll buy hard back to this. And one of the first things here that we're going to kind of touch on is how the system kind of looked, how it operates from a high level. So on my screen now, you'll see a general setup here of Lightspeed. This setup is going to include either a computer in our first version because Lightspeed can technically operate either on a browser on a traditional computer or we can also have is an iPad with a program app, which allows us to run the point of sale. So in both of the iPad version and the computer version, you can see here a pretty simple setup, computer, cash drawer, printer, some kind of Internet connection and payment terminal of sorts. So really straightforward, really easy to set up. And a lot of the hardware here in nonproprietary. The things that you could typically get are immediately you're going to have from a previous system that you might be using. So the setup is really straightforward. And then beyond that, again, the benefit of the system here is that it's going to be cloud -- clearly cloud-based. And especially with COVID, this is a huge win for our customers because whether their store is shut down or whether they're trying to minimize the people in the actual store, if you are a manager, if you are an owner, you can still do a lot of your day-to-day functions, whether that be looking at reports, whether that be building purchase orders, whether that be looking at just general business information, you can get all that information, all access from home. You don't need to be in the actual business, the location to get access to all that critical information. So let's go ahead and actually talk about the system how it works. So like I was mentioning, there's 2 versions here of the system. We have our web version and we also have the iPad version. I'm going to go ahead and focus predominantly on the web version just because there -- for demonstration purposes. And what we first do is when we log in, we're going to see 3 different locations here and then we're also going to have registers at each of these locations. I'm going to go ahead and open up the register here, register 1. And when I've gone ahead and do this, we're now going to see a lot of different information. So for example, we're going to see at the top here, we have our customer information, and this is going to tell us things like who the customer is, what's their contact information. It can also let us look at things like their transaction history, which is super useful if there's some kind of return or something that needs to be adjusted in the future, allows us to easily see. We have our items search here, so most of our customers will be using bar coded items, but if you need to search or perhaps don't have a bar code, you have the ability to search here. And then we also have customization with custom buttons here. And again, this is going back to what we were talking about with respect to the complex workflows. So if you need to add multiple items on a transaction or if you need to pull up a website for forms or for looking at catalogs, whatever the case is, these custom buttons here can be used for a multitude of different functionalities to help allow the merchant to really ease -- sorry, allow them to kind of get that usability they're looking for is a system which they might not be able to from a little more legacy system per se. Let's go ahead and bring up a customer here. And maybe let's even create one from scratch. So we have created maybe John Smith here, Johnny Smith. You might give them a phone number as well. And then we're going to go ahead and attach the sale. So attach the sale here. And now I can go ahead and start to ring up the customer. My account is set up like a bike store. So perhaps I'm going to -- let's do maybe a water bottle as an example. Go ahead and let's use this water bottle here. And what I can see is, again, the price of the item and some other options down here. But what I actually might want to do is maybe associate this to a different customer. If I click into the item, we're going to see, again, the price, if I need to override the price, I can do that here. I can associate this to a different place. In a number of scenarios you might have, employees that work on the floor and those that are just working at register. This allows you to still associate the sale to an employee who's working on the floor, that way, there is commission or whatever is properly attributed to that customer. 3 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 15, 2020 / 5:00PM, LSPD.TO - Lightspeed POS Inc on How Lightspeed Technology is Driving the Future of Commerce Let's just assume it's going to be the same. Go ahead and save this. And now I can go ahead and process the payment, simply hit payment here. And I can see all the different payment types. We can set up custom payment types. Like we mentioned, we do also have our integrated Lightspeed Payments, which do support Apple Pay, Google Pay. But in this case here, let's go ahead and let's just do a simple cash transaction, apply the max set around, finish the sale. And then it's going to automatically print a receipt if we want. You can also print a gift receipt and then we do also offer an e-mail receipt, which is great for if you try to maybe be a little more eco-friendly or also kind of go more on the fully digital route. Awesome. So that is a simple sale, that's how easy and how quick it is to run a sale on Lightspeed. Let's go ahead and jump back for a second. What we're going to see here is a couple of other little details. So we have this loyalty button and loyalty has become a big part of our customers' request. And what we see more and more is, obviously, as customers start to move online and businesses moving online and having that retail presence, our system allows them to have what we refer to as this omni experience. So that also applies to loyalty. So let's bring up Johnny Smith again. And what we can do here is Johnny Smith. Let's sign up Johnny Smith for loyalty. We hit this loyalty button. What it's going to allow us to do is I can see Johnny's phone number here. I'm going to create an account for Johnny. It's actually going to send Johnny a text message, which allows them to keep track of how many points they have or awards they're entitled to. It can automatically send them birthday promotions, et cetera. So a lot of interaction with the customer. But now they have been automatically signed up or we go back to the sale here, see that they're enrolled. But if I want, I can also apply promotions to this transaction. And the same thing would be true online. So let's say Johnny was in the future, go ahead and go to my bike store online. Johnny can apply the point that he earned from my in-store transaction to his online purchases and vice versa, allowing the customer to have that uniform experience, regardless if it's in-store or online. So another thing that I like mentioning at this point, too, is the fact that when it comes to the payment side, like we were mentioning, Lightspeed Payments is a popular option now. The other thing that it goes hand-in-hand with this too, is really popular with our merchants is our gift card program. So with our gift card program, unlike a lot of other systems out there, it's not a per transaction basis. You can use the same card over and over. It can be used unlimited times. And there's actually no charge to use that gift card itself other than the cost of the physical card. Only thing you'll be paying for potentially would be a credit card. So the credit card fee is associated with that transaction. But the actual gift card itself, once it's been loaded up, it could be used a million times with no extra cost. So that's definitely a popular feature we have. The other thing that's important here, too, is deposits. So going back to payments, in addition to the credit card payments, to gift card payments and custom payments, we do also have a deposit system, which allows you to take a deposit, whether it be for a special order, whether it be for maybe a layaway, whether be for -- maybe kind of accounts you want to have where people can start to accumulate benefits then pay it off. These are all things that can be done with the system here and all baked in. No kind of extra modules or things needed. The other thing that's probably worth mentioning at this time, too, is the ability to have them in special types of sales. So we saw the traditional point of sale where it's just -- there's an item in stock, we want to sell it. But something that does come up quite a bit is if you do want to maybe special order something that doesn't quite exist in their inventory or they have something that's back ordered. These are all types of sales that Lightspeed can do. So let me click into the sales section here. And we can see that there is a special order function and also a layaway function. The special function -- sorry, special order function is also beneficial because this will allow us to identify what needs to be ordered when it comes time to completing purchase orders. We'll see that in a little while, but again, this is a very popular and important part of the system. So at this point, let's go ahead and maybe talk a little bit more about the inventory itself. So I'm going to go down the left-hand side here. When I click into my inventory, what we're going to see is a number of different features. The first one I want to focus on is the inventory. So like I was mentioning, the costing side of Lightspeed, the inventory side of Lightspeed, is probably one of the main reasons that merchants will come to us, so especially if you are in a vertical that uses a lot of different SKUs, bike stores is a great example, jewelry stores is a great example, different types in the vape industry and alcohol, number of different kind of verticals who have large numbers of SKUs, these are all ones that tend to flock towards Lightspeed because of the way that we handle our inventory, the ability to track it, the ability to determine the cost and that cost changing over time are all important features of the system. So I'm going to go ahead and open up my items search here. It's going to show us every item that we have in our inventory, whether it's in stock or not, and we can also easily see the stock of other locations. So at a store, you're currently out of stock. You can either have the other stores. We 4 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 15, 2020 / 5:00PM, LSPD.TO - Lightspeed POS Inc on How Lightspeed Technology is Driving the Future of Commerce can see here this one only has 2. So if I'm in a Montreal location, I could actually ask for the current location to transfer me some or what I can also do is, again, just simply tell the customer, if their location is close enough, adjacent location actually has some, and we can go ahead and just complete the transaction at that location. So at the high level, we're seeing a lot of information, we can definitely filter for different things, whether that be for the category, brand, vendors, et cetera. But what I really want to focus on is what actually happens when we've got to create these items. So again, we found the item we're interested in. We know there is an inventory, but if we click into the item itself, we're going to see is a lot of great and critical information. So this is -- this example, this is what we would call a matrix item. And matrix item is kind of most classically thought of as like a T-shirt or something in the kind of maybe apparel world where you're going to have different sizes, different colors, different size variants. And typically, they all have the same price. So this is a very commonly requested and asked for a feature, and we're able to implement that quite easily. And beyond that, we're going to see things like what is the identifier for this product. This is kind of Lightspeed's internal identifier. And then we also carry a number of different identifiers. So if this item was brought in through a catalog, we can see things like what is the manufacturer SKU, has the UPC code, et cetera. There's also ways to further organize this, whether that be with a category, whether that be with the brand et cetera. So these are all very useful when it comes to you to kind of find the item or also when you're trying to report on the item. We can also go ahead and determine different price levels. So if you want to sell to -- is there maybe online in a different price or to customers at a different price point, these are things this system allow us to do, whether or not it's discountable whether not it's taxable, these cold costs. But then one of the probably the most important part here is the reordering point. And the idea here is that you can actually set a threshold of the minimum amount that you want to have on hand. So for example, let's say, we have this T-shirt here. This is one of my best selling T-shirts. I know that I always want to have 10 units on hand. What I can do is set up my threshold to be 10. And then when I go ahead and complete a purchase order, what I'm able to do is search the system to identify all the products that have fallen below this automatic reordering point and it will tell me the difference. So if I have 5 that's on currently, and I want to have 10, it would automatically add 5 units to my purchase order, save me time looking through all of my past reports, seeing what I sold over a particular time period, just automatically ordering allows us to identify that preferential threshold and automatically add all those items that's kind of -- are below that threshold. Awesome. Over on the time side, there's a number of other things that we can see here that are really useful for our customers. We can see every time that this item has been part of the sale, all the customers who have purchased it. All the time, this has been part of a purchase order, transfers, et cetera. So a lot of sales and inventory information tie back to this 1 product, and again, really highlighting the fact that Lightspeed is a very inventory centric program, which drives a lot of customers towards Lightspeed. So just going back into the inventory here for a moment. Beyond what I just mentioned, the system also has the ability to go ahead and print labels. We can import items from past systems or if you're creating items from scratch, these can all be done in the import to save you time. So again, just a simple spreadsheet. The other parts here that we have that I like mentioning and I've already kind of alluded to, is the purchase order. So a purchase order is a great way to ensure that the costing of those items that you are selling is going to be accurate and also determines where it was sold -- or sorry, where it was purchased, how much it was purchased for, when was it purchased, et cetera, all that information is going to be in that purchase order. So we can see here, there are all of our purchase orders within this time frame. What I hope to you now is go ahead and create a new purchase order, select a vendor that we're going to be ordering it from, and just more information in -- can be added here, but these are things that can also be edited for the future. And now what I'm seeing is the actual purchase order itself. So I can go ahead. I can add my items in one by one. I can also, like I was mentioning, used that auto add all button to find all the items that I would want to add that have fallen below that threshold. And then beyond that, we also have our special order component. So when I go ahead and click special order, I can see all the items that have been special ordered for a customer in the past and decide whether or not I want to add it to special -- to this purchase order, so that way the customer can get it as soon as possible. So again, the idea here is that the system is keeping track of multiple different kind of transactions, multiple different pieces of information, but they all kind of tie back at one point or another. So in this case here, there was a special order that needed to be ordered for the customer. We're 5 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 15, 2020 / 5:00PM, LSPD.TO - Lightspeed POS Inc on How Lightspeed Technology is Driving the Future of Commerce going ahead and adding it to our purchase order, but then at the same time, we're also adding all the items that have fallen below that threshold, allowing the merchants to spend a lot less time diving into reports and making sure that they're being as efficient as possible. Awesome. So back on this inventory page, a few other things that are worth mentioning. We do also have this transfer function. So like I was mentioning, if you need to transfer between locations because one has maybe too much or there's that special order content, we can try and purchase and fill in a special order. We also have the ability to do inventory counts. So that way, when at the end of the month, end of the quarter or year, whatever the case is, we can go ahead and count all the inventory and make sure it matches within the system. And if there's any discrepancies, we can go ahead and rectify it through here. Again, having this many options in your inventory control is a big win for our customers because not many other systems will offer just the level of complexity. The other thing that's relatively unique to Lightspeed here is going to be the ability to run services or work orders. Again, so in the touring industry, in the bike industry, pretty much anywhere that you might be doing work for customers, this is a great system because it's going to allow it to again easily keep track of all the orders that are either outstanding or have been completed or in some state or another. And beyond that, what we're able to do is to go ahead and maybe start a new one. It's going to ask me to fill in the customer information, it's going to go ahead and pick apart of my last use customer. And what it's now able to do is a number of different things. One of the most important parts and the commonly requested one is actually pull in previously ordered items from this customer. So you had Johnny order a bike, what we're able to do is search for Johnny's customer item, let's say, it's a bike. It will then an autopopulate description, color size, maybe even a serial number. So that way, it's saving the employees filling up this form a little bit of time. We can then go ahead and say what is actually being done. Again, we have these custom buttons. And these custom buttons can be unique from the ones on the sales screen. So perhaps, again, like my bike store, maybe he was going to do a tune up. You can quickly add that tune up to the sale here, add additional items, perhaps they need some new parts. Those can be added here. And it's fine, who is the employee that is going to be working on it, when it was received, when it is due. And I can also add notes, either ones that would be visible to the customer and ones that would be internal. And then just simply go ahead and print a tag, so that way when the customer comes back, we can easily identify either their service order or if there's -- attached to a bike, easily find whatever that order is based off of the work order number. And then once that is all completed, we can go ahead and check out the customer and convert this work quarter into an actual sale. So on the Lightspeed side of things, in terms of the day-to-day use, those are some of the most commonly requested things that we have but this is only really focusing on the retail side of the business. Lightspeed, like I was mentioning, also does have an e-comm site, which obviously with COVID, has been really, really popular to allow people who typically operate in brick-and-mortar to also come online. So let's switch over to our e-comm site, the customer just simply just click the little drop-down, go over to our e-comm platform here. And this is going to allow us to create all different types of designs, products shipments, all those kind of pieces of information can be handled here. So let's go ahead and maybe jump first into the design section because obviously, that's going to be one of the most critical parts is how do we actually get the system up and running. So when we click the design here, it's going to go ahead and first show me a whole slew of different themes. And these can be both free, they can be paid for, and they can also some then even be optimized for different verticals. So we can see here, we have this one maybe is more optimized for beauty, something maybe more lifestyle focused. You even have one that's restaurant focused, which we'll kind of talk a little bit more about restaurant in a bit, but this is one that's been optimized for the restaurant side of the business. And then once you've gone ahead and found one that you think kind of matches the theme, the feel of your business, what you can do is go ahead and view this demo. And at this point, it's kind of scroll through and you can make sure not only from just the picture, but from actually playing around with the system, does this make sense? Is this the feel that you're going for? Obviously, there is customization beyond this, but the general sense, is this what you're looking for? And if the answer is yes, what you can do is go ahead and buy or install the theme. And then once you've installed the theme, you can now go into the theme editor. And like it implies, it is just going to allow you to edit all the different components of that theme. So let's go ahead and add the theme itself. And it's going to give you kind of a step-by-step guide on what we actually need to do to get you up and running for this store. And everything that you're going to do in the section here is kind of like a sandbox environment. So nothing would be live until you actually this publish button, 6 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 15, 2020 / 5:00PM, LSPD.TO - Lightspeed POS Inc on How Lightspeed Technology is Driving the Future of Commerce so you can play around with it however you like and not be considerable -- actually affecting the customer's experience while it's live. But on this left-hand side, these are going to be all those little components that we can play with. For example, this right banner image, if you want to go ahead and change the size or remove it all together, and these would happen in real time. We're able to go ahead and again, do that for every little section here. And can again, keep tweaking and tweaking until you actually get the site to the component to the way that you like. And on top to that, too, we can even see it in different formats. So for example, this is what we look like on a tablet. And this is what it will look like kind of filled in. So again, making sure it's optimized for all of those different devices and how customers might be experiencing your user platform. Once that's all done, like I was mentioning, you can simply go ahead and publish and that site would be live. And then for those who like to -- or I mean, a little more technologically advanced or have maybe a web designer. We also have advanced option where they can go ahead and kind of head it at the code level to ensure that the site again is exactly like they're looking for and perhaps maybe the theme editor doesn't allow for 100% of the changes that they're looking for. Awesome. Once the site is up and running, we're then going to have our orders start to pull in. And again, these orders will be based off of products that are actually having pulled right from the retail system. So there's no need to recreate or duplicate our products. We're able to push the products right from retail over to e-comm and again, pick and choose because obviously not all products might be best suited to online sales and definitely not the case for all retailers so we can pick and choose what's going to be available and then add different information. So for example, descriptions, additional content. We can optimize for SEO. We can kind of change the categorization. All of this can be done here. And that way, we're ensuring that the customer's experience on the retail is going to be optimized because sometimes the way you might set up your inventory on the retail side is not quite how a customer might be thinking of you out here. So we are able to really optimize what this is going to work, how it's going to look, et cetera, based off of these products itself. But now once you have the products in place, we're able to -- we have our orders start pouring in. So we're going to have an order back office here and seeing all the orders that have come through, what needs to be shipped, what side of payment, is it a curbside pickup, is it a -- saying that it needs to be shipped either internationally or locally. All of that would be viewed here and we can usually kind of keep track of the statuses, ensure that nothing falls through the cracks. So what are the other kind of popular things that we -- especially with the holidays happening now is discounts and whether these codes, whether these be kind of bulk. These are things that Lightspeed can also support. So for example, by a certain amount and at a slightly lower price and we also have the ability to go ahead and again, generate discount codes and also discount rules. These are all things that Lightspeed can help to ensure better conversion as well as upsell. So if a certain item in the cart, we can suggest, "Hey, you know with that bike, go ahead to maybe buy this water bottle." These are -- obviously that Lightspeed can handle here. I think one of the last things I'd want to mention here on the Lightspeed side of things is our App Store. So again, Lightspeed having a very wide breadth of features within the system, but we've also gone ahead and paired up with a number of different great partners that can offer even more functionality. So we can see here, again, a Mailchimp integration is a commonly requested one. So if you want to add a marketing component to your platform, Mailchimp is a great one. Things like abandoned carts, if you've left something in your cart, I'm sure we've all been there and you've got an e-mail the day after or week after depending on the situation, letting you know you forgot something. So these are all different kinds of add-ons that we can add to our e-comm store that have been integrated through a partnership that allows us to either increase traffic, increase our conversion, better retention, better shop management, et cetera, all different things that we can add to the system here and to ensure that the merchant gets the exact experience they're looking for and can tweak Lightspeed again to their preferences. Trying to keep this again more of an overview. One of the last things that I kind of wanted to mention here with respect to Lightspeed, that omnichannel experiences, the reporting itself. So when we go back to the system, we're going to see all kinds of information with respect to our reports. We can easily see taxes collected, totals that were sold, customers, what's on purchase orders, what's not, et cetera. So we have a really exhaustive list of reports that are built to the system. But beyond, we've also gone ahead and we do -- we offer Lightspeed Analytics. And Lightspeed Analytics is a reporting tool, but it's also really a business insight tool, which is going to show you things like how you're trending toward your goals, all different kinds of dashboards and I'll kind of give a quick overview here. 7 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 15, 2020 / 5:00PM, LSPD.TO - Lightspeed POS Inc on How Lightspeed Technology is Driving the Future of Commerce So our sales dashboard here gives you great insight as to how things are trending over time, are -- failed week-over-week based on the category, what are our margins like, how are they trending, our transactions, are they increasing, decreasing over the past year, this year, month, week and yesterday. So really allowing the business to, at a glance, see what's happening. But then when they want to really dive into the details, we do also have a number of reports. And again, these can show you things like, again, how are you progressing time over time. We have a concept that's really popular called dusty inventory, basically showing you after a certain period of time, in this case here, it just had up to be 180 days, what has not sold. So these are things that you might want to put on sale to ensure that they don't kind of get even further out of style and certain that we're kind of recouping our initial investment as quickly as possible. And a number of different things. So products you need to reorder, things that are getting low, et cetera, et cetera. Trying to allow the business to operate as efficiently as possible, so it's been set up here to kind of get the business thinking about these different kinds of metrics and KPIs to ensure that they are improving over time, ensuring that the business grows with -- as Lightspeed grows as well. And this is going to be broken out in different sections. So this was really focused here. Firstly, on the sales and inventory. We do also have an employee performance. So looking at which of our employees are selling best and also being maybe used to identify some kind of commission calculations, and then we even have a marketing section. So what's the value of your customers, what is -- what items are commonly bought together, things along those lines. These systems here will help you identify -- they can help the merchants understand how better to sell, maybe what not to sell, et cetera. Again, analytics here really giving that customer more insight into how better to operate. So now looking at the restaurant point of sale platform. We're seeing a lot of similar benefits, one of the first and primary ones being that this is going to be in a cloud-based system. But we've also added an offline mode with a local server. This way, should your Internet go down, you can still operate the business, send orders to the kitchen and operate in your -- the majority of your day-to-day matters. So let's go ahead and kind of dive into some of the main functions here, kind of punching my pin. And when I do punch in the pin, what I'm going to see here is my floor plan. And this floor plan allows us to have different table files. I also can have different sections. So in the top left here, right, go ahead and tap floor option, I can look at maybe a patio, maybe a quick-serve environment, different types of layouts here, so depending on me as a server, depending on where I operate. I can easily jump back and forth between these options here. But more importantly, what we're going to see is all the tables and then beyond that, what we're looking at is kind of the states of those tables. So for example, I can see in tables 1, 3, et cetera, the ones here in green are currently occupied, tables 2, 15 to 9 are currently in red, meaning that they're in some kind of payment state, they've requested the bill. These customers are going to probably be done soon which is really useful if you have maybe kind of a host stand or something along those lines that we need to give customers a rough idea as to when a table might be cleared. This can give some indication, perhaps maybe your typical turnover time after a bill has been received is 5 to 10 minutes. This allows you to better gauge when these tables would be available. And then we have tables 5, 4 and 8 here, which are currently this opaque, they're available. So we can go ahead and actually seat some customers. I'm going to go ahead and maybe tap on table 4 here. And we're going to see is all of our different items, they're going to be categorized. So at the bottom here, we have all the different categories. Within the category burger, for example, we have all the items above it. And then on the right-hand side, we have the items that are being ordered. When it comes to the items being ordered, there are a number of different ways that we can actually look at the order itself. For most of the fine dining or full-service restaurants, we'll be looking typically at the seat view and the reason why is that more and more customers are looking to split their bills in various different manners or if you want to know exactly what are the customer -- customer want it and what they've ordered, this allows you to do that. But depending on how you operate, perhaps you care more about the time in which an order was punched in. We have a time view, we can simply just look at all the products, another view that way, which user, which employee punched in an order. And then for more your fine dining restaurants where we need to send things off in particular courses, perhaps this is a multicourse meal, that is also an option we could do here. So you can typically kind of just tap and move between the different views in this section, again, depending on how your restaurant operates. So let's go ahead and actually start an order. In this case here, I'm going to go ahead and maybe have some shared appetizers that are going to be on the table. So you can see the table here is highlighted. I'm now going to go ahead and tap my appetizer category. I see all of my different products. These are color coded. I, as the owner or the chef, whatever the case is, I can actually custom color code these to make sure that perhaps all the salads are in green or whatever the case is so it's easy to identify. We can also customize the number of tiles on the screen. So I'm going to 8 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 15, 2020 / 5:00PM, LSPD.TO - Lightspeed POS Inc on How Lightspeed Technology is Driving the Future of Commerce order perhaps some crab cakes and a calamari here for the table. And again, just simply tapping on the button. I'm going to add it to the table here. And then I'm going to start to order things specifically to the seats. So in this case, what I would do is simply tap seat one, for example, and then I can maybe go over to burgers because this is what the customer wants. I can go ahead and maybe select this premium Angus burger, but perhaps a customer has a question or this is a new item -- about this on the menu. What an employee is able to do is actually push and hold an icon. It can bring up a picture of this item in question. And what the staff can do is if they bring in iPad to the table, they can show them what it looks like. But a lot of restaurants find the note section here even more valuable. So this is going to tell them things like perhaps what sauces are on the item, wine pairings or beer recommendations. Those can be added here. We can also have things like potential allergens that the service should be aware of. And then if this is something that's -- perhaps there's going to be limited offerings for the evening, what we can do is also put a stock here, so you can keep track of how many items that are actually available so that we don't oversell these products here. But when I go ahead and actually place the order, I tap the button, there's an option for modifiers. So things like toppings and spice levels, et cetera. These are all things that can be added to the product itself. We do have customization here. For example, things can be on a secondary page, they can be listed vertical, they can be horizontal, minimum, max numbers of options, you had to pick 3 of 5 modifiers, up charges. These are all things that Lightspeed can easily handle here. What I've gone ahead and added the item, you can see here now on the bill. I'm going to go ahead and tap on to seat 2 and then maybe order something for this customer and keep it straightforward. Seat 3 perhaps. Again, I don't know, let's do a mac and cheese here and then seat 4, perhaps they aren't very hungry. They want simple salad. I'm going to go maybe back to my appetizers, order this Classic Caesar salad here. And now we can go ahead and send it off to the kitchen. So when we send it off to the kitchen, again, depending on the type of environment that this restaurant is, what we're able to do is potentially reorganize how things are going to come to the kitchen. Some restaurants just want everything at once. And then they'll just send it out to the dining room as necessary, but what we're also able to do here, is allow the kitchen or the employee to reorder things. So we have the Caesar salad here, which is typically considered an appetizer and see here in course 1, I can actually easily move into course 2, that little 3 line icon. And again, the benefit here is that when the kitchen receives it, they'll know despite a salad being typically an appetizer, this customer here wants it as a main, send it out with the mains and as simple as seeing print here, that would automatically fire this order into the kitchen or into the bar wherever that order needs to go and have the particular items printed in the most appropriate spot for that restaurant. So that's the ordering process. The next item is really kind of how we actually pay for it. And to do that, you would simply go ahead and hit pay. We're going to see all different kinds of payment buttons along the bottom here. Again, I've color coded these to kind of emphasize some of the customization pretty -- again, customizable in that front. And then what we can do here is go ahead and again, select the different types of payments like we're mentioning. We have our Lightspeed Payments for credit cards. We also have options for gift cards and again, the benefits here to know charges per transaction. One of the things that people really like about the Lightspeed system, too, is how we split our bill. So when we hit the split bill button, there's actually going to be a number of different ways that we can do this, so they be split by item, by seat, equal parts. I'm just going to do a split by seat as an example, and we can see here, and gone ahead, generated multiple different receipts. I can combine them if necessary. So perhaps you have a couple and two individuals sitting at the table, we can go ahead and combine those necessary ones onto one bill. Easily move things around, again, depending on whatever is necessary. And something that a lot of restaurants have difficulty with is perhaps they've maybe spent a little bit too much time splitting the bill. We're able to do is easily push this button, revert to split, bring it back to how it was originally punched in. And then again, kind of split it up as we meant to do it rather than how we may have messed up. So at this point here, we can go ahead. I'm just going to do maybe a credit card transaction, finalize the orders here. And then we're cleaned out for that table. So overall, really straightforward, and that's kind of what we're focused on, trying to make the ordering process and the overall experience as easy as possible. The other part that I might want to just highlight to you in a big kind of trough for merchants to use Lightspeed is on that payments side. And when it comes to the payments, it's also how it's integrated with respect to hotels. So a number of hotel chains have started to use Lightspeed as a result of our integration with the different property management systems. So the benefit here is when you go ahead and click whatever that property management system was, you can go ahead and actually search the database for customers that have check-in. So John Smith, it would then search the database, find any Smiths on any room numbers that have checked in and then I can actually apply this 9 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 15, 2020 / 5:00PM, LSPD.TO - Lightspeed POS Inc on How Lightspeed Technology is Driving the Future of Commerce to their bill when they check out for -- after they're saying they can pay for it at that point as opposed to having to pay for it when they actually have dined at the restaurant. So that's a pretty high-level overview of the point-of-sale system. I do also wanted to spend some time kind of talking about some other components here. So the other one I want to maybe highlight at this point is how does the back office work, I'm just going to switch my screen momentarily here. And what we're looking at here is our back office. As you can see, again, very clean, easily kind of keep track of how things are progressing for the day. We can easily jump to a report here. We do offer reports that can be e-mailed on a daily or weekly basis for a number of different reports. The product reporting here is typically kind of requested when -- how are things are selling over this particular time frame. We also have a really easy to set up menu, basically again, select, add a product. Go ahead and add the name, the price maybe modifiers, this can all be added in a quick method. We do also support things like a timed event, happy hour, maybe day special, senior specials. These are all things that can easily be controlled here within the system as well as all the other kind of device settings, payment settings, anything, et cetera. And these are all things that can be done, again, remotely. You don't have to be in the actual office, because, again, this is a cloud-based system. And when you make those changes, they can be pushed live, should you want to make that change in that moment. So the last thing that I think I want to just mention here, too, in terms of kind of the back office side of things is the way that we can have items pulled from Lightspeed here into online platform. So we've obviously been ordering a lot more food online with respect to COVID and not having necessarily the ability to dine into restaurants. So one of the benefits of the Lightspeed system is that we do offer our own in-house ordering where a restaurant can set up a website, which customers can place orders and that would fire directly into the kitchen. Everything would be pulling from this main menu. The same thing also applies to delivery platform. So depending on where you are in the world, things like Uber Eats, Skip the Dishes, Deliveroo, DoorDash, et cetera. These are all things that can be linked and synced with Lightspeed. So maybe just the first one here to kind of touch on is our version of the Order Ahead platform. And this is something we've launched back in October, but has definitely become one of the most popular and highly anticipated features. What it allows you to do, this is a multilocation account. I can select the location I want to order from. It will then go ahead, bring up the menu. Again, this menu is being pulled directly in from Lightspeed, no need to manage an online menu. And in restaurant, many of these can all effectively be stemming from that same individualized menu. Go ahead. You can pick your products here, pulling images again from Lightspeed, your modifiers from Lightspeed, this is your order. Everything would be showed up here in terms of how -- what the totals are. I can select when I want to pick it up. If I want delivery, what that delivery cost would be. And then we're also supporting curbside pickup with the ability to leave a note. So again, very optimized for how things are operating right now with respect to COVID. Again, this being the Lightspeed Order Ahead platform, the one that we've developed ourselves, but we also have, again, an integration that allows orders that might be coming in from things like online delivery platforms such as Uber Eats, and in which case, what we're able to do is sync our menu to those online platforms. So in this case here, I have my demo account linked to delivery with Uber Eats. And what this is going to allow for is those orders that would typically come into a tablet, they can now be automatically accepted, automatically fired into the kitchen. In that way, restaurants don't have to worry about fumbling over things like reaching in orders, which could potentially result in orders being missed or orders being entered incorrectly. It saves a lot of time. It also means less clutter And there's something that a lot of people know is that there's actually the ability with these delivery platforms to have a ranking system, very similar to how you have SEO for e-comm sites, same kind of thing for delivery platforms. So the quicker you accept an order, and in this case, sharing can be done automatically, the more accurate that order is, so the less kind of step chargebacks, but errors and complaints you have, the speed at which you complete the order, all these things kind of work towards your ranking. So with a platform like this, the big benefit, having all those parts automated or streamlined is going to fully increase your ability to go up the rankings. And then in turn, also make more money because you'll have more orders coming in because you're higher up on -- when people search for burgers or whatever the case is. So yes, this platform here, definitely a big win. One of the other kind of last things that had recently been introduced here is our restaurant e-comm team. As it implies, we've updated and optimized this to work specifically for restaurants. So very simple site, allows them to easily pull in information from Lightspeed, things like their order ahead platform. We also have the ability to kind of plug in reservations if you're allowed to have reservations 10 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 15, 2020 / 5:00PM, LSPD.TO - Lightspeed POS Inc on How Lightspeed Technology is Driving the Future of Commerce currently in your area. You can sell products. So if you need an extra source of revenue, something we also can sell through here and through our e-comm platform, your locations and then even the ability to pull in through Instagram. So Lightspeed has spent a lot of time kind of developing these platforms to kind of help businesses on all fronts, especially with the way things that have been going in COVID, a lot of new developments in that regard so sort of customers can keep up and running just by having maybe limited options with certain restrictions. QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS Gus Papageorgiou Okay. All right, James, thanks. That was great. We have a few questions here. So next to inventory reorder, what are the most common automated processes that we're seeing on the platform? James Greco Yes. So with respect to the inventory side of things, I think a lot of the automation revolves around kind of how we report on it and what you can action on. So for example, what has kind of not sold for a particular period of time, what we referred to as dusty inventory items out of stock transferring between locations, inventory counts to kind of consolidate or confirm what you actually have in stock matches what the system says, and a whole other kind of list of kind of KPIs and other key metrics for -- that you can find in reporting and analytics. Gus Papageorgiou Great. Another question, when we're onboarding new retail customers like a bike shop, how much assistance do we give retailers in helping them initially populate the inventory in the system? James Greco Great question. So the process to import themselves is relatively straightforward and also something that we cover in our onboarding process. So for example, we'll teach you how to use the import tool and you can do up to 10,000 SKUs at a time right now. However, if perhaps it's not your forte or you want Lightspeed to help as well, we do also offer import service where they can send us a file with all the pieces of information and that we can complete the import for them. Gus Papageorgiou That's great. And what about product management systems? Do we allow integration with product management systems? James Greco So yes, for the PMS services on the restaurant side of things, we have a whole list and we're always adding more and updating the kind of in-depth integration we have with them. In terms of the most up-to-date list, we do have an integrations page live on our Lightspeed website, and I'd probably recommend looking there to determine which we currently offer because, again, it is always updated. 11 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 15, 2020 / 5:00PM, LSPD.TO - Lightspeed POS Inc on How Lightspeed Technology is Driving the Future of Commerce Gus Papageorgiou Great. Another question here. And could you discuss how suppliers for retail could be added into the system? And also, I noticed that there was a supplier market beta icon in the retail tab, maybe could discuss that in context of this question? James Greco Definitely. So we had 2 kind of instances right now. The first one is more of a traditional method where we can actually upload catalogs or get access to catalogs from the suppliers, whoever might be with the vendor for a particular retailer. In that case, it's again kind of more of an analog version where we're basically just searching through a list of items that has been provided from a supplier. So we can still associate and order things from that supplier, but we're not actually getting live information. So what they have in stock at their warehouse, what MSRPs might be changing over time, and that's kind of where the supplier beta comes in. I won't speak too too much, It's still in the beta process, but we're looking at basically, again, integrating directly with suppliers of different verticals so that merchants can get the most up-to-date information, again, inventory prices, et cetera, to make the kind of transition between a more data system having to order manually to being -- to do everything kind of in one spot with Lightspeed. Gus Papageorgiou Great. A couple of questions on do we integrate with services like DoorDash? James Greco So yes, the delivery platform does allow us to integrate with a number of different key providers with respect to delivery space. So DoorDash is an option, Uber Eats, Skip the Dishes, Postmates, et cetera. So there are quite a large number that we do integrate with, and we're always adding more. Gus Papageorgiou Great. Another quick question here is how long is the typical onboarding process stake? James Greco So it really depends on the complexity of the merchant. I would say that for someone who has a relatively limited number of items, both on the restaurant and the retail side, you're probably looking at somewhere between, say, 2 and 4 weeks on the kind of conservative estimate. And then if you're maybe a more advanced, where you're going to have e-comm site, a huge list of SKUs, et cetera, we want to set you up for a success in which case we'll probably suggest somewhere between 6 to 8 weeks but it definitely could be longer if, again, the kind of complexities and integrations for services go beyond the kind of the norm. Gus Papageorgiou And all of that is done remotely for the most part, correct? James Greco Correct. Exactly. 12 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 15, 2020 / 5:00PM, LSPD.TO - Lightspeed POS Inc on How Lightspeed Technology is Driving the Future of Commerce Gus Papageorgiou Okay. So a question here. We didn't really go through the golf vertical, which has been pretty popular for us. Of these 2 offerings that we showed, is golf more like retail? Or is it more like restaurants? James Greco Great question. So golf is just kind of its own system altogether. So it is as it implies, very focused on things like tee sheets and membership, how many courses you played over the year, et cetera. So that component itself is very golf optimized, but the benefit here is that it does still integrate with the retail and the restaurant side of the business. So for example, if you are a larger course, you do have a club shop and you do have a restaurant. The golf system basically kind of acts as the middle point that's going to connect the retail side and the restaurant side. So everything is going to speak to each other and you're not really working in kind of a siloed instance where a lot of other systems might have that or where you might have a retail store and then a golf membership, Lightspeed here is going to kind of allow you to connect everything together under one roof. Gus Papageorgiou That's great. You showed a lot of features, like for dusty inventory where it was 180 days. But how customizable is -- are those features? If you decide that you want to know when inventory is, for example, over 90 days or you want to set certain limits for low stock, can you do that within the system? James Greco Yes. So within Analytics, you definitely have the ability to customize some of those components. So this again would be with our full-fledged analytics platform, allowing you to customize things typically at the top level category. And when I say top level category, there might be accessories, so that would be everything you have in accessories. Not necessarily gloves and then men's, et cetera. So that kind of top-level accessories as a whole, you can definitely categorize and customize that to be 90 days, 100 days, whatever the case would be for each of those categories itself. Gus Papageorgiou Okay. Great. Here's a question I get a lot, and I'm not sure how you can take a stab at it, and I'll also chip in if you want. The acquired businesses like Upserve and Gastrofix, will they be integrated into a common platform? And is it important and difficult? James Greco Yes. So I might let you kind of finish off my answer here. Gus Papageorgiou So absolutely, both Upserve and Gastrofix and all of our acquisitions are going to be integrated into a single platform. Lightspeed One is the product name. We're not interested in maintaining a portfolio of solutions. We really want to get down to one solution. Some will happen faster than others. But over time, we are going to one Lightspeed solution globally, for sure. Do we tell what we've done with product managements? I guess -- oh, lots more questions. Oh, yes, there's a couple of questions on payments, but if we look at our e-commerce solution, what do you think are the like -- what are the kind of differentiators of our e-commerce solution versus competitors? 13 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 15, 2020 / 5:00PM, LSPD.TO - Lightspeed POS Inc on How Lightspeed Technology is Driving the Future of Commerce James Greco So I think the kind of part that really separates Lightspeed from the competition is not necessarily individual components but how everything works together. So I saw a question there with respect to like how automated are the sales and the information between retail and e-com. And again, I think that's where Lightspeed really shines. So for example, if you do have a store as well as an e-comm site, the information will sync between the 2. So having one product on your retail side, it's easily able to be now launched on your e-comm and as well kind of vice versa, if you sell something online, that sales information would show up in your retail store as well as the customer information. So it's really having this kind of one Lightspeed concept where everything will basically again sync back to one unified spot and you're not having to check multiple different places for reporting or inventory whatever the case might be. Gus Papageorgiou Great. I think we'll take one last one because we do want to stay on time. What about the solution for time-based services such as gyms or spas or fitness classes? How well does the system work for those types of business? James Greco So that's definitely an area that we're kind of starting to emerge into. Some of the features that we do have, obviously, inventory centric is great for those things that you do sell, however, over the time and services, there are things that we're working right now with partners to build out even further and some internal systems that we're adding to make us more optimized to work in those spaces. But as of right now, we don't spend -- or we don't have a ton of representation in those areas. Gus Papageorgiou But I think also the services like subscriptions, which we launched a couple of months ago, will help in that area for sure. James Greco Definitely. Gus Papageorgiou Yes. Okay. James, thanks. That was great. We appreciate your time. For everybody -- I kind of remind everybody, again, that the webcast will be hosted on our site. For those of you that missed it or want a replay. Any questions, feel free to reach out and contact me. Thank you everybody, for coming. 14 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 15, 2020 / 5:00PM, LSPD.TO - Lightspeed POS Inc on How Lightspeed Technology is Driving the Future of Commerce DISCLAIMER Refinitiv reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes. In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized. THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES REFINITIV OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS. 2020, Refinitiv. All Rights Reserved. 13537662-2020-12-15T20:44:24.270 15 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 15, 2020 / 5:00PM, LSPD.TO - Lightspeed POS Inc on How Lightspeed Technology is Driving the Future of Commerce
REFINITIV STREETEVENTS EDITED TRANSCRIPT HIG.N - Hartford Financial Services Group Inc at Goldman Sachs Financial Services Conference (Virtual) EVENT DATE/TIME: DECEMBER 08, 2020 / 2:20PM GMT REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS Beth A. Costello The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc. - Executive VP & CFO Christopher Jerome Swift The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc. - Chairman & CEO CONFERENCE CALL PARTICIPANTS Yaron Joseph Kinar Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - Research Analyst PRESENTATION Yaron Joseph Kinar - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - Research Analyst Good morning, everybody. We're very pleased to have Hartford's Chairman and CEO, Chris Swift; and CFO, Beth Costello, with us this morning. Before I hand it over to Chris for a few opening remarks and then jumping into Q&A, I do want to remind everybody that if you have any questions, there is a box at the bottom of your screen and you are welcome to submit any questions through that. And with that, Chris, thanks -- Chris and Beth, thanks for joining us. And I'll hand it over to you, Chris. Christopher Jerome Swift - The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc. - Chairman & CEO Thank you, Yaron. It's great to be with you at the Goldman Sachs conference. I know Beth and I always enjoy being physically in your wonderful building, but we'll do it virtually this year and get back to physical next year. So I would just say a couple of things. 2020 has certainly been a year of 2 sides of a coin. Started the year with great momentum, great confidence in all our businesses, really pleased with the way we were performing. But then, obviously, COVID hit and we had to change the playbook completely to, first, focusing on our employees and our customers and handling all their needs during that time; working digitally, advancing our digital adoption; and then trying to plan for '21/'22 cycle coming up here shortly. So I think we performed actually very, very well during 2020 in spite of COVID. Obviously, I think we've been very transparent on what our COVID judgments have been. But as I look forward, Yaron, I really believe, and I have the data and the facts that support it now, that we can grow our top line and expand margins across our commercial franchise going forward. So we'll talk more about that in February when we normally give our driver guidance, but I'd like to give your investors and audience confidence that we are returning to growth and margin expansion. And really, that's the culmination of just 10 years of hard work in restructuring the organization, shedding businesses that didn't make sense for us to have, improving them operationally, investing in them. So I really believe the best days at The Hartford are ahead of us due to the cumulative effect of all our strategic actions, all our operating actions, all our capital management actions. So if I just go around the horn. Small Commercial is the leading franchise. I think we have the leading BOP product out there, next-gen Spectrum, which is really going to power our growth going forward. Middle Market, it's been in the process over the last 4, 6 quarters of re-underwriting books of business. So they're pivoting to growth. They have more products to sell through our agents and distribution with the Navigators acquisition. The Navigators Global Specialty combined with ours is almost a $3 billion business that is enjoying robust rates, and we've gone through our re-underwriting activities there, led by Vince Tizzio. If I pivot to Group Benefits, the integration activities with our acquisition from 3 years ago are done. We're squarely focused on growth. We can grow the top line from our core products with voluntary and supplemental products coming there. 2 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 08, 2020 / 2:20PM, HIG.N - Hartford Financial Services Group Inc at Goldman Sachs Financial Services Conference (Virtual) And as I said, we've enjoyed building up excess capital during this time of crisis, but we see more clarity about the economic activity. We have more clarity about COVID. We have more clarity about COVID liabilities and our exposure. So we know how to announce these things. We normally do it at year-end, towards the 1st of February when we do our earnings calls. But when there's something to announce on capital management, we'll announce it, Yaron. So that's what I would say. And it's great to be with you again, Yaron. QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS Yaron Joseph Kinar - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - Research Analyst Great. Thanks. And I think there's a lot to unpack there so forgive me if I go back to some of the points you made with more directed questions around them. So one of those points, I think, you touched on specifically with Navigators, but I think it's true probably for the broader market, which is great. What are you seeing kind of as we head into 1/1 renewals? And what are your expectations in the P&C market into 2021? Christopher Jerome Swift - The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc. - Chairman & CEO Well, if you look sort of at the P&C market, it's again a tale of 2 sides of the coin. On one hand, we're living through a pandemic that's creating widespread economic hardship, displacements of jobs, people losing their lives. And the human toll here is not to be underestimated, and it might take some time for us emotionally as people to get through with that. The impact on sort of the economic toll for us is we're an employment-centric firm. So as jobs shrink rapidly, there's a lot of adjustments through audits. Premiums came down a little bit, particularly in Group Benefits also. But as jobs are coming back -- and I think it's been quite a remarkable employment picture, just the big shock and the big, now, rebound. We got a good shot of getting back to somewhat close-to-normal unemployment levels, I think, in 2021, by the end of 2021. So that's going to bode well for more payrolls and more benefits to come from there. And then on the P&C side, as we alluded to, I mean most lines of businesses, except comp, are enjoying strong to robust rate environments primarily because of the factors that we've talked about as a team on our earnings calls. But you could look to social inflation. You could look to low interest rates. You could look to COVID. You could look to just a number of different things that are going to continue to put pressure, I think, on combined ratios where the need for rate well into '22 is apparent, at least in my mind. Yaron Joseph Kinar - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - Research Analyst Okay. And with that construct in mind, as you look into 2021, what areas of the business are the areas where you think you're going to go really into offense, pursue new business more aggressively versus areas that maybe you'll still play a little more defense trying to protect margins, trying to protect the market share you have? Christopher Jerome Swift - The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc. - Chairman & CEO Yes. I would say the certain aspects of the casualty market, again ex comp, I think are ripe for being a tad more aggressive. I think again, across our portfolio, I would say that our written rate increases that we've enjoyed this year are ahead of loss trend. If you look out even into next year, I see that continuing. 3 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 08, 2020 / 2:20PM, HIG.N - Hartford Financial Services Group Inc at Goldman Sachs Financial Services Conference (Virtual) There's -- when you take aggregates, you lose some of the nuances at the fringes. But the lines that I think continue to need the greatest rate continue to be commercial auto, umbrella, excess, certain aspects of E&O and D&O. But -- they're getting good rate, but I think they need to continue to push for -- we as an industry need to continue to push for rate in '21. I think we'll be a little cautious in comp. And the comp, I'll call it, debate is interesting to me. Obviously, we're on the smaller end of the market. And if you look at our results over the years, it's been pretty consistent in that 87%, 88%, 89%, 90% range of combined ratios, which are really strong results. So even though there's a little comp margin pressure that I still feel we're going to face at least in the first half of '21 and things might begin to inflect a little bit in the second half of '21, I mean we're starting from a point of strength with that workers' comp book and, obviously, the BOP Spectrum product line as I talked about. So I think you just got to put things into context that we're in a pretty good place with comp in Small Commercial. On benefits, I would say, again, through the integration period of time, we expected a little higher lapse rates, which we did experience. But I think we're off to a -- I know we are off to a great start with January '21 renewals. Our voluntary book is getting bigger. Our A&H book is getting bigger. So all those will incrementally contribute to growth, but the biggest driver will be in the core as employment levels rebound, Yaron. Yaron Joseph Kinar - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - Research Analyst Got it. So you mentioned we may see a little bit of headwind in workers' comp, at least first half of the year. We're seeing a little bit of interest rate headwind as well. How are you thinking about ROEs here? I think the company has had a very strong, stable ROE, call it, in the 12% range for the last 3 years. Is that a sustainable number here? Or do you think that just with the environment we're in, we have to reset expectations maybe slightly lower? Christopher Jerome Swift - The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc. - Chairman & CEO No. I'd say in a word yes. I think that 12% ROE is a good anchor point for us going forward, and I'll tell you why. In spite of low interest rates, we've been, again, pruning, re-underwriting many books of business in Global Specialty, Middle Market. I mentioned what Doug and the team are doing there. So actually, margins are expanding in those lines not only due to price but re-underwriting actions that we've launched 4 to 6 quarters ago. So that's going to have a cumulative impact on expanding margins from here. We could talk about it with Beth, but obviously, Hartford Next, our $500 million expense-saving program, will help overall margins, particularly on the expense side. Yes, lower for longer is going to be a little bit of a headwind, but again, I think it's manageable with our investment capabilities. We're not going to dial up risk in this environment, but at the margins, there's things we can continue to do to eke out 10, 15, 20 basis points of NII improvement while facing those headwinds. So I put it all together -- and plus, obviously, we're sitting on excess capital today that we'll talk about. But when I put it all together, I think over the next 2 years, a 12% anchor point on ROE is very realistic for us and doable. Yaron Joseph Kinar - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - Research Analyst Okay. I want to dive into -- maybe a little deeper into COVID, which you've gotten a lot of questions on over the last couple of quarters or a little more now. Maybe if we start with... 4 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 08, 2020 / 2:20PM, HIG.N - Hartford Financial Services Group Inc at Goldman Sachs Financial Services Conference (Virtual) Christopher Jerome Swift - The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc. - Chairman & CEO You've contributed to those questions on our earnings calls, Yaron. Yaron Joseph Kinar - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - Research Analyst Yes, yes, guilty as charged. Christopher Jerome Swift - The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc. - Chairman & CEO You really have, yes. Yaron Joseph Kinar - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - Research Analyst Yes and tried to offer some answers as well. I don't know if they're right, but I tried. I guess if we start with maybe a broader view, not a Hartford view. I think some of the earlier estimates around COVID losses were, call it, in the $100 billion range, a little more, a little less. I think what we've seen to date has been closer to the mid-20s for the industry. Do you think that we just got the numbers really, really wrong? Or do you think that there's still a lot of catch-up in terms of the losses that are still coming through the system? Christopher Jerome Swift - The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc. - Chairman & CEO Well, it's just hard for me to, say, speculate. I mean I could tell you my instincts, it's a little heavy. But again, there's different terms and conditions and policy wording in different countries and around the world. I mean you could see the litigation that is happening in various different forums. And that's why we say not all litigation is created equal, right, just because there might be higher case counts. In our particular case, you can have one litigation involving one client that is pretty material and pretty significant. So I can't speculate on what the final tally is going to be, but obviously, it's a big shock. And we're still living through it quite honestly. The second wave, I think we all need to be very thoughtful about activities. And some of these liability exposures, some of the disputes that are going to inevitably need to be resolved in courts will take some time to play out, Yaron. Yaron Joseph Kinar - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - Research Analyst Right. And so speaking of that last point. So I think over the last few months, we've seen a few developments. One, I think the multi-district litigation -- I think ultimately, the courts sided with the industry. They're not forming these MDLs. On the other hand, we're starting to see, maybe at the state level, a few court decisions that are putting together some suits on the business interruption side specifically and even a couple of early cases now where courts have actually sided with the plaintiffs on business interruption. Has -- have your views on business interruption and potential exposure changed as we've seen these developments from the courts? 5 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 08, 2020 / 2:20PM, HIG.N - Hartford Financial Services Group Inc at Goldman Sachs Financial Services Conference (Virtual) Christopher Jerome Swift - The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc. - Chairman & CEO No, not at all. I think it's playing out as -- pretty much as we thought, there'd be early wins and disputes. There might be on a state basis -- the state court system was probably our biggest concern in certain jurisdictions. But as we reviewed and as we've shared with investors and analysts, we've done an exhaustive review ground up of all our policy forms. We feel very good about how we've constructed it, and we feel very good about the direct physical loss requirement. We have contaminants and pollution exclusions. We also have then the virus that sort of wraps around -- the virus exclusion that wraps around all that. I think our language is clear, is unambiguous. And it's just going to take some time in the court system. But I don't keep track it like a baseball score, but I think it's been 80-20, at least in my judgment, that 80% of the decisions have generally gone the industry's ways and 20% maybe have not and that there are going to be further appeals and further debate and motions to ultimately dismiss, hopefully, a lot of these claims. Yaron Joseph Kinar - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - Research Analyst Got it. And one question coming in from the audience on this specifically is, as you head into -- as you renew policies over the course of the last few months, have you added additional exclusions or tighter language around business interruption? Christopher Jerome Swift - The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc. - Chairman & CEO Yes. There -- yes, totally. In all our lines of business, we've tightened up terms and conditions where it needed to be tightened up, provided additional clarity. So as we head into a second wave here, we don't think we will have any increased exposure. Yaron Joseph Kinar - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - Research Analyst Okay. And then on the flip side of the corporate loss, there's also the nominals, right, of decreased utilization and how it impacts kind of everything else, if you will, the people who are not in stores, not in restaurants, not going into work. How is that impacting the loss ratios? What impact do you think it may have on the intermediate- or longer-term loss trend? Christopher Jerome Swift - The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc. - Chairman & CEO Yes. Those are things that I'm going to turn to Beth in a minute as the reserving function and actuarial function reports to her. But you're right, there's a lot of moving parts in establishing loss picks, loss ratios, year-end judgments. I think we've been very thorough and thoughtful on that. We've been through most of it. Beth has taken me through with the actuaries and Doug. So I think we got our arms around everything. And I'll let her explain. But I think we've been pretty transparent of what our direct COVID losses have been, where we put up, I'll call it, loss dollars, whether it be on comp, whether it be on surety, E&O, D&O, our expense for litigation reserves. But then we've also been equally clear that we have taken some frequency benefits for exact -- in comp for exactly the reasons that you've talked about, slower economic activity, people working from home. And we felt that there were real frequency benefits this year. We also obviously reflected some frequency benefits in Personal Lines. But by and large, that was the only, I'll call it, frequency benefits that we took during this COVID period. But Beth, what would you add? 6 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 08, 2020 / 2:20PM, HIG.N - Hartford Financial Services Group Inc at Goldman Sachs Financial Services Conference (Virtual) Beth A. Costello - The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc. - Executive VP & CFO Yes. No, that's correct. So obviously, on the comp side, we have seen reduced counts from a non-COVID perspective, and we reacted to that. We are watching closely though the severity side of comp, so taking into consideration the fact that with some of the shutdowns and people's reluctance to go to doctors' offices and things like that, you can see extension sometimes. So we've taken that into consideration in our overall loss picks, and we feel very good from a comp perspective of where we stand. And then as Chris mentioned, on the personal auto side, definitely have seen decreases there, which we reacted to. We did provide rebates to customers in the second quarter to reflect some of that. But those are really the 2 primary areas where we've made sort of an explicit judgment to reduce kind of our initial picks from the beginning of the year because of those frequency trends. Yaron Joseph Kinar - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - Research Analyst Okay. That's helpful. And then, Chris, I guess, returning to one of your opening comments, and Beth, I'd love to hear your thoughts from a reserving perspective as well, low interest rates. So I've heard many times the argument of, "We're in a lower interest rate environment. We've set lower. Therefore, we need to get more price to offset the loss [in IRR] essentially." But I feel like, over the last 30 years, we've been in a pretty continuous bull bond market, and we haven't seen that play out in terms of P&C pricing or reserve picks for that matter. Why would this time be different? Or what's changed? Christopher Jerome Swift - The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc. - Chairman & CEO Yes. I would -- I'd poke at your thesis just a little bit. I mean I can remember the days 20 years ago. I mean you could feel good about running comp at 101, 102 and make some money off float. I mean you can't run comp today at 101, 102, 103 and make anywhere near adequate returns. I think -- we also debate returns in relation to our cost of equity capital and what is an appropriate long-term spread to try to target. So as rates do come down, interest rates, that, theoretically, does lower your cost of equity capital. So it's not necessarily dollar for dollar. But directionally, I still believe that we're going to have to raise rates to earn any semblance of a good return on capital, just given sheer magnitude of the declines, right? If you look at the 10-year compared to just a year ago, it's probably down 125 basis points. It's trading at 91 or 92 these days. I mean that's a meaningful difference that will have to be reflected in rate increases in my judgment, Yaron. Yaron Joseph Kinar - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - Research Analyst Okay. And Beth, anything you could add from a reserving perspective, how you factor in a low interest rate environment? Beth A. Costello - The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc. - Executive VP & CFO Well, again, from a reserving perspective, we're looking more at loss cost, right? So the fact that you can earn investment income because we're not discounting our reserves isn't really going to impact our loss pick. But to Chris' point, we look kind of all in when we're doing our pricing models to make sure that we believe we can make an adequate return over time. I think the other thing, too, that's happened over this period of time is you have seen loss cost trends in some lines like comp trending down. So I think that, that sometimes has had kind of an impact relative to maybe not seeing what's full impact of low rates. But I agree with Chris. Given the size of the decline and how quickly it has happened, I do think that you'll see it work its way into pricing over time. 7 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 08, 2020 / 2:20PM, HIG.N - Hartford Financial Services Group Inc at Goldman Sachs Financial Services Conference (Virtual) Yaron Joseph Kinar - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - Research Analyst Okay. And then, again, going back to the opening comments, social inflation and maybe tying it to loss trends as well, loss cost trends. I would imagine that trying to figure out loss trends in this environment is nearly impossible just given the volatility and the shutdowns and whatnot. How do you go about it -- or how have you gone about it in 2020? And have you seen any changes in what we call social inflation, considering that courts have been shut down for part of this period and we haven't seen as much economic activity? How are you thinking about those? Christopher Jerome Swift - The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc. - Chairman & CEO Yes. So again, I'll let Beth add her commentary, too. I mean social inflation is a broad term, right, for elevated claim judgments, usually coming out of courts or settlements. There's elements of just inflation that is creeping into damages at a fairly alarming rate. Some of it could be current activity. Some of it could be like the reviver statutes in various states, where, again, people are actually harmed due to physical or sexual abuse. So that has then a cumulative effect of -- wasn't in loss cost years ago, I could tell you that. So there's current trends, there's catch-up matters, and it's just sort of a reality of where you're at. But we try to make our best estimates, again, by line of business. I think the more challenged lines are obviously the excess casualty or the retail umbrella lines, where, again, we're upper single digits to low digits on some of the loss cost trend picks there. The trick there is to be stable and consistent over a longer period of time and look for trends because, as you know, 1 or 2 years does not make a trend. Even in COVID, as Beth said, there might be slowdown in judgments or court decisions or people seeking appropriate medical attention, which creates then larger problems down the road. But I think our team is very thoughtful in looking at all aspects of what goes into loss cost trends, frequencies, severity, everything. And I believe we've been very thoughtful over the years in how we pick trend. Beth A. Costello - The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc. - Executive VP & CFO Yes. And the only thing I'd add is that -- on the specific comment on social inflation and recent trends, given the fact that courts have been shut down and so forth, is we take that all into consideration and not sort of overusing kind of a current trend to say that's the new long-term trend. And we try and balance that as we make our loss picks. And that's why we don't usually come off of our initial picks until time has really transpired and they've seasoned so that we can really see activity because you can always have distortions. Yaron Joseph Kinar - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - Research Analyst Right. And maybe that's a good segue to my next question. So industry is seeing more considerable rate today. Some are seeing rate over trend. And now we're turning into a rate over rate -- or rate on rate over trend. And yet, we haven't seen a lot of that actually come through the loss picks yet or lower loss ratios. I'm not necessarily asking for a date in which we should expect to see that. But in terms of kind of recognizing good news later, what kind of guideposts are you looking for? How much maturity are you looking for before you feel confident in releasing some of that or resetting? Christopher Jerome Swift - The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc. - Chairman & CEO I'll let Beth add her points of view, but she said it. It's the word we use around the office quite a bit. It's just season in time. These are long-duration policies and liabilities. You could put up 90% IBNR in sort of the current calendar year for the most recent accident year. So it takes time. 8 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 08, 2020 / 2:20PM, HIG.N - Hartford Financial Services Group Inc at Goldman Sachs Financial Services Conference (Virtual) I wouldn't say there's a formula. There isn't a guidepost. I mean it's guided by data, historical trends, are you getting more or less claim counts coming in, settlement patterns. But generally, on these casualty lines, it's a minimum, in my judgment, 3 to 5 before you get real good indicators of how things are going to develop long term. Beth, would you add anything? Beth A. Costello - The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc. - Executive VP & CFO No, I -- yes, I agree with that. I mean sometimes you'll see the frequency probably, maybe sometimes a little sooner than the severity, and you try and balance that relative to the overall loss pick that we made. But we typically don't come off of our initial estimates unless we see something to the negative. Obviously, you tend to respond to things that are going against some of your judgments than the other way. And we look at this stuff every quarter. We look at our claim activity every month, and all that helps to form our judgments of just understanding what's happening in our book of business. Yaron Joseph Kinar - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - Research Analyst Okay. And actually, switch gears to the personal P&C side. So we've seen the company really improve the loss ratio over 4 years preceding COVID, but on the top line, we're seeing kind of the sustained pressure. When do you think that, that inflects? And what actions are you taking to get there? Christopher Jerome Swift - The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc. - Chairman & CEO Yes. As -- so I think we addressed a question you had on the call, what are we doing with Personal Lines. And we talked about -- remember, this is 90% of AARP book of business. We did extend our AARP relationship 10 years. The new contract runs through, I believe, 1/1/33. We are investing in a new platform, new chassis to administer products by Duck Creek. We're rebuilding home and auto products. We're changing terms and conditions. We're going to 6-month auto policies, really modernizing the program to really -- the 2 organizations, AARP and The Hartford, are committed to being more of a relevant player. And a lot of our growth dynamics were just the way our products were designed, particularly with lifetime continuity agreements. We had to be very, very cautious of who got that on day 1 because, in essence, we made a potential lifetime commitment to someone. So I think, again, with a more modern product, with better data and analytics to support our underwriting judgments and how we refresh those data analytics with 6-month policies, I think, will all lead to higher and faster growth. But clearly, the next 2 years, '21 and '22, we're sort of in that transition period, that flux period. So I think we could be flattish to slightly up over that period of time, but it's going to really take until we're in all 50 states with our new product set, which happens by the end of '22. So '23 sets up for more of a growth story than the next 2 years. Yaron Joseph Kinar - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - Research Analyst Okay. So we're running out of time. I do want to touch on 2 other things: one being The Hartford Next initiative; and the other, capital management. So if we start with Hartford Next, $500 million of cost saves that you're targeting. Can you maybe talk about the key buckets where the cost saves are going to be extracted from? And maybe on the other side of it, it's not just about the cost saves, it's also about investment in the platform and digitalization and helping growth. Maybe we can talk about that a little bit as well. 9 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 08, 2020 / 2:20PM, HIG.N - Hartford Financial Services Group Inc at Goldman Sachs Financial Services Conference (Virtual) Beth A. Costello - The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc. - Executive VP & CFO Yes. So I'll start. Christopher Jerome Swift - The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc. - Chairman & CEO Beth, do you want to -- yes. Beth A. Costello - The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc. - Executive VP & CFO Yes, I'll start on that. So yes, our Hartford Next initiative that we launched this year, we're on track to save $500 million in 2022, kind of based on our 2019 starting point. And it really is across all areas of the company. It is a company-wide initiative. So there's things that we're doing in our operation centers, from an IT perspective, how we contract with vendors. Our -- claims is a component of this as well and really looking to maximize our use of technology and so forth. So it really is all-encompassing. There's over 600 initiatives that are tracked by the team on a weekly basis. And feel very good going into 2021 with what we've laid out because we said that by 2021, we would have saved $300 million of the $500 million, and we are on track to do that. So a component of it, as you referenced, is being able to expand the use of digital techniques, and we're seeing more pickup there. Chris alluded to that earlier. And we think in the end, this isn't just about saving costs. It's also going to better the experience for our customers, which we think, obviously, is really important in this day and age. Yaron Joseph Kinar - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - Research Analyst So then my final question, buybacks. So you -- we haven't seen buybacks from the company the last couple of quarters. It seems like you're generating a lot of capital today. You're confident in the 12% ROE, not that worried about business interruption. It seems like the market is somewhat worried about potential losses. Would it be a very strong signal to the market if you resume buybacks just in terms of confidence in the balance sheet and in your position? Christopher Jerome Swift - The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc. - Chairman & CEO I would frame it in a slightly different way. What I would share, Yaron, is what is our priorities for capital and how does that then match up to the operating environment that we're in today. So we've always talked about investing in our businesses, as Beth said, whether it be for greater efficiency, technology that we need, security, growth. And we've been pretty aggressive, I think appropriately so, in building out and improving the chassis, our core capabilities, our digital footprint for the future, and we're going to continue to do that. Obviously, in the environment, as you alluded to, we want to make sure that our businesses could grow and take advantage of those opportunities in the marketplace. I think also, if you look then at priorities, we've had a capital -- a philosophy of always increasing our dividend in relation to growing earnings. Again, if you look over the last 10 years, I think we've been able to grow our earnings base so that we have a good healthy dividend in relation to earnings, particularly GAAP and statutory earnings. Third, we've always said, if we don't -- can't put to good use and earn acceptable returns, IRRs, we'll return excess capital to shareholders. And we've done that periodically over the last 6 or 7 years. You've seen the trend. I think we've been balanced during that period of time. We also paid down 10 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 08, 2020 / 2:20PM, HIG.N - Hartford Financial Services Group Inc at Goldman Sachs Financial Services Conference (Virtual) a lot of debt as we were rightsizing the balance sheet and ultimately exiting Talcott. So we used a lot of excess capital to rightsize the balance sheet and return capital to shareholders. And that continues to be a valid thought priority for us today. So as we've talked about, it's the time of the year where we finalize plans. We have meetings, discussions. We typically give our driver guidance in February. So between now and February, we'll have a lot to communicate. And I'm just asking you to be just a little patient. Yaron Joseph Kinar - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - Research Analyst All right. Well, I do look forward to February, I guess. Any closing comments before we end? Christopher Jerome Swift - The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc. - Chairman & CEO No. It's always -- again, great being with you. Thank you for your time and attention. But I'll stop and end where we started. I think our next 3 years are going to be just fantastic. Again, the cumulation of a lot of great work by the team, our talented teammates across the country, the improvements we've made in the platform. The businesses we're in, I think, Yaron, are the right businesses long term to be in to earn superior returns out of those profit pools. We're executing well. We're a team that sets high goals and high standards, and I think we're performing. So the environment the next 3 years, I think, will allow us to continue to perform at a very, very high level. And I'm the most excited I've been in my 11 years with The Hartford over the next 3 years. So we've seen a lot, we've done a lot, as I say. But now is the time to sort of harvest all the hard work, all the gains, all the strategic moves we've made, and I really believe that's what we're in now. There's no more things to fix. There's only things to grow and get better at. Yaron Joseph Kinar - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - Research Analyst Great. I look forward to seeing that. Thank you, both Chris and Beth, for your time and thoughts. Take care. Beth A. Costello - The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc. - Executive VP & CFO See you later. Christopher Jerome Swift - The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc. - Chairman & CEO See you later. 11 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 08, 2020 / 2:20PM, HIG.N - Hartford Financial Services Group Inc at Goldman Sachs Financial Services Conference (Virtual) DISCLAIMER Refinitiv reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes. In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized. THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES REFINITIV OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS. 2020, Refinitiv. All Rights Reserved. 13537686-2020-12-09T05:12:46.603 12 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 08, 2020 / 2:20PM, HIG.N - Hartford Financial Services Group Inc at Goldman Sachs Financial Services Conference (Virtual)
REFINITIV STREETEVENTS EDITED TRANSCRIPT BA.N - Boeing Co at Credit Suisse Global Industrials Conference (Virtual) EVENT DATE/TIME: DECEMBER 04, 2020 / 1:50PM GMT REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS Gregory D. Smith The Boeing Company - CFO & Executive VP of Enterprise Operations CONFERENCE CALL PARTICIPANTS Robert Michael Spingarn Crdit Suisse AG, Research Division - Aerospace and Defense Analyst PRESENTATION Robert Michael Spingarn - Crdit Suisse AG, Research Division - Aerospace and Defense Analyst Okay. Good morning. I think we're live. It's Rob Spingarn from Crdit Suisse. And it's my pleasure to welcome Boeing this morning. We have Greg Smith, EVP of Enterprise Operations and Chief Financial Officer. Greg, thank you so much for sharing your time with us this morning. Clearly, the market will appreciate an update on the latest with Boeing, given the fast-paced environment we're in. But we're going to chat for about 35 to 40 minutes, but I'd like to start by asking if you have some opening thoughts. Gregory D. Smith - The Boeing Company - CFO & Executive VP of Enterprise Operations Yes. Great. Thanks, Rob. And again, appreciate the opportunity to be with you and the rest of the team today. And hope you and all those listening are staying safe and healthy. Yes, I thought it might be helpful just to give a brief update on the market and then some updates on some of the key programs, and particularly on commercial and then -- and just some of the other actions that we're taking to navigate the current environment and kind of how we're seeing it beyond the pandemic. Maybe just start with the market. We're continuing to monitor the pandemic closely and -- as we have been, and having consistent and regular conversations with customers and suppliers. And certainly, that's informing our decisions of what actions we need to take as a company and how do we need -- how can we stay ahead of this as we've been continuously trying to do. Of course, as we've seen some very encouraging news around the potential for a vaccine to be introduced broadly fairly near term, which is -- which, again, is very encouraging and positive, and it's the key enabler, certainly to our industry and to our customers, and to the recovery and the growth, along with a lot of other industries. So something, again, we're watching very closely and talking to our customers about to get better informed, again, of how we need to support them. But at the same time, as we've all seen, the winter months have been tough so far, and we're seeing significant case spikes around the globe. And as the cases rise and you've seen the protocols around travel change, and the recovery has slowed and continues to be uneven. On the domestic front, we're seeing regional differences as Asia recovery continues and is progressing very well, whereas the U.S. trajectory was moving in the right direction and then started to level off recently with the case rates and the restrictions and so on. And then Europe recovery is really temporarily reversed as the -- again, as the restrictions have continued or have been strengthened. On the international side, clearly, international passenger traffic is still the hardest hit, remaining about 90% below 2019 levels at this time last year which, again, has impacted the overall near-term demand for widebody markets, as we've discussed before. And as we had more thorough discussion on the third quarter call around the widebody market and rates, we're seeing that pressure continue over the last month since we last talked. So as a result of that, we've made a modest adjustment to the 787 production rate from what we had previously announced rate of 6 aircraft a month beginning in mid-'21 to a rate of 5 per month by mid-'21. And as we're transitioning to that lower rate between now and mid-'21, we're going to see the effective production rate be below -- be below 10 for that period of time. 2 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 04, 2020 / 1:50PM, BA.N - Boeing Co at Credit Suisse Global Industrials Conference (Virtual) And while we balance the supply and demand through the near-term impacts in the global pandemic, we do remain very confident in the long-term outlook. And certainly, the health of the 787, as you've seen between the versatility and just the demonstrated market-leading economics that airplane brings to the marketplace, the long-term potentials post pandemic are very robust. I think on the narrowbody front, we're continuing to expect domestic air travel to lead the recovery and, as a result, expect narrowbody demand to be a really key driver in the overall market. But as we've said, the path ahead will be heavily dependent upon not only the virus but also the wide-scale progress on rapid testing, the coordinated travel entry protocols and, ultimately, the timing and the availability of the vaccine that, again, is we're seeing that progress with pace and some encouraging news there. So although the near-term market, again, continues to be dynamic and challenging, we remain very confident in the long-term fundamentals. And as we're navigating this unprecedented time in the commercial market, we're not taking our eye off defense space and security business and ensuring that we're executing and meeting our expectations there. That's clearly driving some stability back into the company, and the market outlook remains solid domestically and international for our major programs. Now shifting a little bit to just some updates on some of the key programs. As you've seen, the news on the FAA lifting the 737 grounding order. And you'll see -- you've seen international regulators progressing well. The move allows the airlines that are under the FAA jurisdiction, including those in the U.S., to take steps necessary to resume service and for us to begin making deliveries. So this is clearly an important step representing progress. And as we rebuild trust 1 airplane at a time, we will be laser-focused on, again, safety, quality and transparency. And I'd like to pause there and just, again, thank our customers and all our partners for their patience and their confidence that they've had in us and our products. And I want to thank again, Michael O'Leary and Neil from Ryanair for the recent order of 75 airplanes that we announced yesterday. We're certainly looking forward to working with them and all of our 737 customers as we bring this aircraft back into the marketplace. And as we bring it back in the marketplace, and again, as we've stated before, we'll assist our customers with the return to service of their existing parked fleet first. And then we'll begin deliveries from our delivery center through a mix of aircraft from storage and those coming off the production line of Renton. And just this week, the airplane ticketing process began in preparation for the first deliveries, which are now expected to be in the next coming weeks. So every step of the way, we'll continue to follow the lead of the FAA and our global regulators, and we'll work closely with our customers to meet their needs. And as we've communicated previously, we continue to monitor the pace of passenger traffic recovery. And again, a key underpinning of that is the vaccine and certainly in the travel protocols, as I said. And we'll adjust the 737 production rate as appropriate. And we're currently producing at a very low rate, and we plan to gradually increase that, as we stated, to 31 a month in the early '22 time frame. On the 787, as we discussed on the third quarter call, we've got a large number of undelivered 787 aircraft in inventory. And clearly, the burn down of that inventory will be largely influenced by the pace of our delivery activities. The additional time that were taken to inspect and ensure that each of our 787s are delivered to the highest quality standards has taken longer than we previously anticipated. So as a result, we delivered no 787s in November and expect the process will continue to slow deliveries in December and anticipate unwinding the inventory now, those undelivered aircraft, through 2021. So while the additional time for inspection is impacting deliveries, conducting the comprehensive reviews is absolutely the right thing to do for our customers and for the long-term health of the program. And I think it demonstrates our commitment to focus on quality and safety across all of our programs. So we'll continue to keep you posted on our 787 deliveries. 3 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 04, 2020 / 1:50PM, BA.N - Boeing Co at Credit Suisse Global Industrials Conference (Virtual) On 777X, continue to work with the regulators and the certification work scope, including reflecting the learnings from the 737 regulatory review process. And again, as any development program, there is inherent risk that can affect schedule. And the timing of EIS will ultimately be influenced by the certification requirements defined by regulators. So we expect to gain better visibility as our work with regulators progresses and we continue to keep you up to date. At the same time, we continue to stay very close to our 777X customers regarding their fleet plans and timing of deliveries. And again, we'll continue to keep you up-to-date on 777X. And then maybe, Rob, just lastly, as we manage the impact of COVID-19, we believe we are taking the right steps to manage our business in proactive steps. And since March, we've initiated a set of prudent steps and actions to preserve liquidity through the pandemic, adapt to the new market near term and transform our business to capture long-term opportunities ahead of us. You've heard us talk before about the actions we're taking across those 5 pillars: to reshape our infrastructure; streamline our overhead and organizational structure; rebalance our portfolio and investment mix; and strengthen the health and stability of our supply chain; and drive operational excellence across the enterprise. Our mission here and objective is very clear: stay laser-focused on the market dynamics, take proactive action and get ahead of this as much as we can, as we have done. And all eyes are on cash and liquidity right now and have been, and we will emerge stronger, more resilient and positioned for growth on the other side. The long-term fundamentals of the market, they remain strong, and we continue to keep an eye on the future as we're navigating this environment and believe our portfolio is well positioned. And we're taking the right actions to navigate the environment, supporting our customers, our suppliers and our people. And we'll continue to be confident, again, in a long-term market and our future and continue to make the right steps, and make them with pace and with solid action plans to, again, to come out of this stronger and more lean and more agile and in a better position to even compete before the pandemic. So with that, Rob, I'll hand it back to you and happy to take any of your questions. QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS Robert Michael Spingarn - Crdit Suisse AG, Research Division - Aerospace and Defense Analyst So well, thank you, Greg, and thank you for the update. I guess, hearing that, and given the changes, we're in this fast-moving, dynamic environment where things are improving in some areas and regressing in others. Based on the changes you just talked about to the production rate, for example, for the 87 and the latest timing, are you comfortable with your liquidity position at this point that you can manage through this slightly changed, I'd call it, near-term plan? Gregory D. Smith - The Boeing Company - CFO & Executive VP of Enterprise Operations Yes. Yes, we are, Rob. I'm -- yes, we're comfortable about where we are today. And taking all that, what we just talked about, into consideration, and as you know, we've been, from day 1, trying to stay ahead of this and taken action early, whether it was the delayed draw term loan that we executed on very early or the debt raise that we had in the market. But throughout that entire period, daily focus on cash. So yes, we're comfortable about where we are today and getting to the other side of this. Having said that, we're continuing to keep all of our options open. And you should expect us to continue to be proactive where we need to be proactive. And we're constantly reviewing our capital structure strategy and focused on the long-term balance sheet strength that we look to obtain over time. Robert Michael Spingarn - Crdit Suisse AG, Research Division - Aerospace and Defense Analyst Okay. I'm going to have a question going back to that in a little bit. But I think what I'd like to do is stick on the demand side, customer behavior kind of topic. And notwithstanding what you just said about the near term, one of the things that the vaccine progress brings to light is this possibility that maybe the recovery, while it's obviously going to be slow at first and gradual, but maybe at some point, it hockey sticks a bit. 4 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 04, 2020 / 1:50PM, BA.N - Boeing Co at Credit Suisse Global Industrials Conference (Virtual) And there's this talk of a light switch full case, if you will, where traffic suddenly improves. I'm not clear on the timing, but let's say second half of '21. And once the vaccine gets out there, especially into a lot -- into parts of the world that fly, we maybe get a somewhat more aggressive recovery in demand than expected. Do you at all contemplate the possibility of something like that? And could you accommodate it if it happened? Gregory D. Smith - The Boeing Company - CFO & Executive VP of Enterprise Operations Yes. I mean, to answer your first question, yes. So we're running scenarios constantly around various outcomes of this and pace and acceleration around it. And we've been doing that, again, since day 1. And it's -- these are very active, as you can imagine, models in different scenarios, with the real attempt to stay ahead of it. Now staying ahead of it, whether it's staying ahead of it that, it becomes more challenging. Or staying ahead of it, that it actually is better than what the base case might be today, we'll be ready, Rob. And I think we have an advantage that certainly it wasn't set up intentionally this way, but we've got 450 aircraft parked on the 737. The constraint there won't be our ability to deliver them. It's the pace and ability for the customers to take them. So we can turn that up pretty significantly, and we're resourced, and the teams are trained and ready to do that. Now obviously, we will work with the regulators, if that's the case, and they will take the lead on that, and we will follow them. But as far as our ability to resource and react to what might be a more accelerated case, we're very prepared for that. And like I said, in particular, as we see that it will likely be narrowbody recovery that will be -- we will begin with, we're in a position to provide those aircraft to the customers at a very strong pace. And like I said, we're resourced to do that. Robert Michael Spingarn - Crdit Suisse AG, Research Division - Aerospace and Defense Analyst Without getting too far ahead of myself, because I got a MAX section here, but if you provide those aircraft to customers, are they generally going to the originally intended customers? Or can you reconfigure those for others, for example, Ryanair? Gregory D. Smith - The Boeing Company - CFO & Executive VP of Enterprise Operations Yes. We certainly can. And as you know, on a narrowbody, it's certainly easier than a widebody, and we will. And in some cases where we've had cancellations, we've provisioned for the ability to reconfigure those aircraft and remarket them. So we absolutely have that flexibility, and we'll bring that flexibility to the table when talking with customers. So if we see some earlier stronger demand, we'll go through that process with them, whether we would reconfigure or they would reconfigure it. We've got all those options on the table. And like I said, we've got the teams and we've got the capital in place to be able to resource that and meet their needs. So I don't see us as being a constraint if there is a, as you put it, a hockey stick, it will really be more around the customer's ability to take the aircraft. Robert Michael Spingarn - Crdit Suisse AG, Research Division - Aerospace and Defense Analyst And then just on that, Greg, if we do have that hockey stick between inventory planes and produced planes, if you were to get back into, let's say, the rate of 40 -- in the 40s or 50s on the MAX and we get some lift in widebody, how close -- I'm looking out to the right here and so I don't want to get too far into the skis, but how close could you get to the cash flow levels that we all contemplated prior to the grounding and prior to COVID? Gregory D. Smith - The Boeing Company - CFO & Executive VP of Enterprise Operations Yes. Well, you hit on the single biggest, I'll say, driver of cash flow recovery, and it's the MAX. It's getting 737 rate back up will be the single biggest driver, even as you look from '20 to '21. The improvements in cash flow, although '21 will still be use of cash, but not as much as '20, 737 deliveries are the single biggest driver. The driver after that is the 787 unwind of the inventory that I just talked about and then combined with some of the other activities that we got going on in the company. 5 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 04, 2020 / 1:50PM, BA.N - Boeing Co at Credit Suisse Global Industrials Conference (Virtual) And then as you go from '21 to '22, again, if you were to kind of rank these of drivers, significant drivers, 737 again, which is tied to, again, burning off that inventory but bringing up that production rate, as you discussed. So that's kind of the, I'll say, the key drivers from '20 to '21, a lot of moving pieces, obviously, within that. But if you just step back and said, what are the real key differentiators on the cash flow profile of the Boeing company? Those are the big drivers. So that's why clearly, we're laser-focused on this and putting all the right resources in place to ensure that we can meet the demands of our customer and, as you know, really try to get that inventory burn down as we've talked about. And then beyond that, it will be all market-driven clearly, that -- and we'll modify production rates accordingly. And the cash flow will follow the increase in the production rates and the progress payments that will come with those enhanced production rates. So this is very much market-driven and kind of goes back to the fundamentals I talked about, which is testing protocols and travel restrictions and ultimately the vaccine that's tied directly to traffic recovery. And if that's the case, then the production rates will follow, and we'll be prepared. Now under all the work that we're doing under this transformation effort, as I mentioned, we're not leaving any rock unturned under those 5 categories, and we're looking for opportunities to streamline and lean ourselves out with the idea that we can emerge from this stronger and more efficient. So still lots of work to be done, but that is a -- that's a regular cadence. That is a weekly cadence that we go through, actions we're taking, whether it's real estate or consolidation or management structures, organizational structures, driving stability into -- making investments to drive stability back into the production system. So when the rates come up, we're, candidly, in some cases, in better shape than we were before the pandemic because we're using this time to get the things in place to drive stability that ultimately is going to drive predictability, first-time quality, and our ability to come up and rate, do it efficiently, and the cash flow will follow. So there's a ton of effort going on around that, and there will continue to be throughout this and post this. But that's kind of the way we see it, Rob. And like I said, the key drivers, as I outlined, are going to be the big focus items. And of course, the market is going to really dictate that. And that's -- it's really important that we stay in tune with the market dynamics and making the adjustments, whatever we need to do, and not lose sight of the future, which is absolutely we are not doing. Robert Michael Spingarn - Crdit Suisse AG, Research Division - Aerospace and Defense Analyst Right. Just bringing it back a little closer to now. One topic that comes up consistently with the investor community is that of advances. And there's -- so since we just talked a little bit about PDPs and Boeing's managing of the customer book, how do we think about advances trending on the balance sheet the next couple of years? The expectation is it's a headwind because you were collecting PDPs for a larger group of deliveries than you'll actually have. So what's the way to think about that, Greg? Gregory D. Smith - The Boeing Company - CFO & Executive VP of Enterprise Operations Yes. Well, as you know, the fundamentals of PDPs are tied to production rates and delivery profiles, right? I mean -- and the timing associated with those. And clearly, with COVID, all of that has changed, and combined with the MAX grounding, there is no, I'll say, kind of normal profile of PDPs any longer. And there probably won't be until we get back up in these rates and stabilize because aircraft are moving from left to right, there's mix taking place. We've got PDPs, obviously, that are currently some of them ahead of schedule, that some of those will burn off through delivery. So there is even more moving pieces around PDPs than you would typically be. And not a surprise, considering the day-to-day discussions we're having with customers is they try to adjust to new market realities and preserve liquidity, we're doing all we can to try to help with that. But each one of these is a unique case. And again, there's no norm in there currently. 6 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 04, 2020 / 1:50PM, BA.N - Boeing Co at Credit Suisse Global Industrials Conference (Virtual) So it's going to take some time, Rob. And I think the key thing to watch is getting back to stable production rates. PDPs then will start to fit into the framework that they would typically fit into pre pandemic. So I think we've got a couple of years here where PDPs are going to be a little bumpy until we get back up to those rates. Robert Michael Spingarn - Crdit Suisse AG, Research Division - Aerospace and Defense Analyst And looking out a little bit to the right, it maybe premature to ask this question based on what we just discussed, but is -- can we have a conversation about a normalization in the order behavior by airplane type with the MAX versus 87 versus 777X? Do you all have any visibility on when the market comes back for those on the order side? Gregory D. Smith - The Boeing Company - CFO & Executive VP of Enterprise Operations Yes. Well, I think, again, it kind of just comes back to the fundamentals and with regards to when they get back in the air and when do they start generating cash and their own liquidity positions are currently, that's what's going to drive, I believe, the order book, ultimately. Look, you've seen the backlog going through all this is -- continue to be very robust. I mean, customers, they want their aircraft now, may not want them right -- in all cases, right now with everything they're going through, especially widebody. But as you've seen, net-net, for the most part, everybody wants to hold their position because they see the other side of it and they want to be positioned to win and to modernize their fleet in that time frame. I think the other factor is clearly retirement of older aircraft. You've seen customers around the globe taking more proactive action to ground fleets that maybe not necessarily were planned to be grounded in the near term. And so they're taking the less inefficient portions of their portfolio during this pandemic and just grounding them and grounding them permanently. And that certainly opens up opportunities for things like the 787 or the 737 or, frankly, the entire product line. And as you know, the efficiency that these aircraft bring into the marketplace is extremely compelling. So I think there's a series of things that will take place that will really drive the order book. Having said that, it's unique customer by customer. As you saw, like I said yesterday, Ryanair announcing an order. And you could see more of that in the near term. So we're working with each one of the customers, understanding kind of their fleet needs, obviously, currently, but also post pandemic and how do we help get them positioned to win in that environment. And like I said, we'll be ready to do that. But it's -- there's a couple of key factors there that are driving it. But it is unique by customer, and obviously, their route structures and their portfolio. But grounding -- permanently grounding the aged fleet does open up opportunities for -- certainly for a much more efficient product line. And back to my opening comments, look, I think we've got a great portfolio. And we've invested $60 billion in this business over the last 10 years and a lot of that has gone to this portfolio. So we're ready for that day, Rob, to see the order book coming back. And like I said, we're going to come to the table and compete to win in what we see as a pretty robust marketplace post pandemic. And we're going to be at the table with our customers and help and support them whatever fleet needs they have. Robert Michael Spingarn - Crdit Suisse AG, Research Division - Aerospace and Defense Analyst We get asked often about the case for continuing the 777X. Obviously, right now, there's not much demand for very large airplanes and you're not even [ready] with it. But maybe the point you just made, so much heavy metal has been retired. All these squads going away, does that actually boost the case down the road? 7 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 04, 2020 / 1:50PM, BA.N - Boeing Co at Credit Suisse Global Industrials Conference (Virtual) Gregory D. Smith - The Boeing Company - CFO & Executive VP of Enterprise Operations Well, I think -- yes, I think it creates opportunity, certainly, because, as you know, a lot of those aircraft weren't planned to be permanently retired necessarily this year. And so they've been accelerated. And I think it does. And like I said, if you look at the efficiency that something like a 787 is bringing into the marketplace, at 25-plus percent more better operating efficiency, it's very compelling, obviously. And the track record of that aircraft or the 777 or even the 767 as a freighter and then, certainly, the 737, all of these have very compelling economics that they bring to the market. So when you're looking at a trade of retiring something a lot less efficient, these are well-positioned products, intentionally positioned by us and the investments we've made in them. So I think it does -- it could create some opportunities for us over the long term. It's about getting through the short term, as we talked about. As you see, the more strain on international travel. But I think, as far as recovery, at least the way we see it, recovery probably be in 3 phases. One being kind of domestic recovery and then a more limited international recovery and then followed by a wide scale kind of international recovery at, again, full scale. And so that's where the widebody production and demand clearly will fall in, and that's something, again, like the 87 I talked about. Everyday, we're just laser-focused on the marketplace near term and long term and engaging with our customers to figure out what do we do on production rates and how do we think about production rate increases. So that's what's going to inform it. And like I said, we're capitalized, as you know, for very high production rates. So I don't see us being constrained in being able to deliver if that pace of traffic picks up, I'll say, faster than the base case that's currently out there. 777X, like I said, you said it. Look, the EIS is going to be influenced by the requirements by the regulator. And we got still lots of work to do there and we're gaining visibility, but there's more visibility to be gained that we'll have to take all of that into account, and we will. And at the same time, again, working with each of those customers on their fleet plans if how they see recovery and ultimately how that will impact the program. So like I said, we'll continue to keep you up-to-date on all of our production rates, but in particular, again, more focus on some of these widebody rates and, of course, 777X certification. And then -- and then ultimately, the customer feedback on their ability to take deliveries. Robert Michael Spingarn - Crdit Suisse AG, Research Division - Aerospace and Defense Analyst Okay. I've got a few more topics that we're going to try and squeeze in, in these last 8 minutes. A little bit of a quick round on this. But next airplane, what are your thoughts on future product strategy and what does timing look like? And would it be incremental or more bolt? Gregory D. Smith - The Boeing Company - CFO & Executive VP of Enterprise Operations I'm sorry, Rob, I missed the last part. Robert Michael Spingarn - Crdit Suisse AG, Research Division - Aerospace and Defense Analyst If -- on the next airplane, do you expect to do something more incremental or more bolt -- for the departure? Gregory D. Smith - The Boeing Company - CFO & Executive VP of Enterprise Operations Okay. Well, look, I think if you just kind of step back from that for a second, and I mentioned it earlier, we're not -- we haven't lost sight of the importance of making investments that are critical to the future of the business. So when we think about future product strategy, we're continuing to reprioritize and streamline our R&D investments and CapEx. But again, when we were in pursuit around the NMA, we asked the team to step back and reassess the commercial development strategy and determine what family of aircraft that we needed for the future. And that team continues to work, and they're building off the work that we did on NMA. 8 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 04, 2020 / 1:50PM, BA.N - Boeing Co at Credit Suisse Global Industrials Conference (Virtual) Now obviously, the environment has changed with COVID and the dynamic marketplace and the competitive landscape. So we'll continue to do that work, and we'll make the right call when we need to make it. But this is a portfolio, like I said, that we feel good about and we've invested a lot in. I think the -- what it brings to the marketplace has been evident, and it's evident in the backlog. But we're not losing sight of any other market opportunities we may have. And we want to position ourselves to win in those marketplaces. So while all this is going on, the team is continuing to reassess the -- the product development strategy and where opportunities may exist and what time frame those opportunities may or may not exist. And we'll make the appropriate decisions based on that will ultimately be informed by our customers. And so once we get to that stage, then we'll decide what other -- what we do further on our current product lineup and if we do anything further than that. Robert Michael Spingarn - Crdit Suisse AG, Research Division - Aerospace and Defense Analyst Just briefly on BGS, what are your expectations for the commercial services recovery? And do you see the business model for BGS adapting in light of COVID? Gregory D. Smith - The Boeing Company - CFO & Executive VP of Enterprise Operations Yes. Well, there's been a lot of adapting going on from day 1 of the pandemic because, as you know, that's the first indicator, of pullback, is on services. So we saw it early, whether it's -- certainly, as we saw fleets getting grounded and spares activity dropping off dramatically, we took the right -- we took a lot of action early on to rationalize the footprint and inventory levels and prioritize our investments in G&A, you name it. We got on that right away. And at the same time, we've got a robust government business, fortunately, that's helping lift the overall service business through this period. So it's been challenging certainly. But recently, we've seen signs of starting to see some improvement. It's slow, and we expect it to be slow and moderated. But we're going to continue to look at that portfolio, again, post pandemic and through the 5 pillars I talked about on transformation and ask ourselves the difficult questions around what do we continue to do, what we don't continue to do and how do we position ourselves for the other side to compete and win. So a lot of active engagement going on in BGS around the day-to-day but also, as you said, kind of the forward-looking in that recovery that -- again, we've seen some early signs, but it's slow, but it has flattened out, which is encouraging. And the government business is doing very well and continuing to execute well and has good demand. So there is the advantage of having, I'll say, a balanced services portfolio that we're seeing the benefit of that today. So more to come, Rob. But again, big watch item because it's day-to-day decisions that customers are making, and we've got to adapt quickly. So it comes right back to what I said earlier, you got to stay engaged with the customers. You got to understand where they are. You got to understand how they're thinking about next week, next month, next year. And you got to take all that into consideration and try to do the right thing for your company to address that marketplace. And then, like I said, how do we come out of this even stronger on the other side to serve them even better? And that's been a big part of the discussions around services. Robert Michael Spingarn - Crdit Suisse AG, Research Division - Aerospace and Defense Analyst Right. Just given the time we have left, I've got -- I'm going to go forward to my balance sheet question. We talked about it earlier, I mentioned it in another question. What are your thoughts about equity issuance and capital deployment going forward? And I really am focused on this equity issuance part. Just given the rounding the shares, et cetera. Gregory D. Smith - The Boeing Company - CFO & Executive VP of Enterprise Operations Yes. Yes. Well, as you said, with the stock price, a lot of people are asking the question, which is good. Look, I think as I said earlier, we're constantly reviewing our capital structure strategy, with near-term opportunities, but then this long term, how do we get the balance sheet back to -- with healthy, I'll say, and with strength. 9 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 04, 2020 / 1:50PM, BA.N - Boeing Co at Credit Suisse Global Industrials Conference (Virtual) And so we're constantly, Rob, looking at different opportunities. And you just saw one recently that we did with regards to the balanced funding approach we took with funding the pension and the 401(k) with Boeing stock, along with the $25 billion of debt issuance this year, and then another $4.9 billion of issuance on -- for debt maturities this quarter. So you should expect to see that same type of, I'll say, mindset of staying ahead, looking for the best outcome for the company and not losing sight on that we want to improve the balance sheet over time. So when it comes to capital deployment, we got -- we want to -- it will be all about paying down that debt. We'll continue, obviously, to invest in the business, but we got to get this debt balance down. And we'll look for every opportunity to do that in the most efficient way, including equity. So nothing's off the table. But I just want to, again, reinforce the fact that we're constantly reviewing it. And we're constantly running different scenarios and trades. And it's all about long-term balance sheet strength and protecting our credit rating and, again, just getting this balance sheet back to what it was. And I'll tell you, I'm -- we came into this strong -- with a strong balance sheet. And fortunately, we did. And we want to get back to that. And that's the objective, and that's the focus that we're on. Robert Michael Spingarn - Crdit Suisse AG, Research Division - Aerospace and Defense Analyst Of course, it makes complete sense. Greg, I want to thank you for spending the time with us today. We've run up against the clock. I've got more questions, but we're out of time. And -- but we certainly do appreciate your participation in the conference. Thanks so much. Gregory D. Smith - The Boeing Company - CFO & Executive VP of Enterprise Operations Well, thank you, Rob. I appreciate the opportunity. Stay safe. Thank you. Robert Michael Spingarn - Crdit Suisse AG, Research Division - Aerospace and Defense Analyst You as well. Take care. Gregory D. Smith - The Boeing Company - CFO & Executive VP of Enterprise Operations Bye-bye. DISCLAIMER Refinitiv reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes. In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized. THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES REFINITIV OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS. 2020, Refinitiv. All Rights Reserved. 13537694-2020-12-04T15:13:59.403 10 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 04, 2020 / 1:50PM, BA.N - Boeing Co at Credit Suisse Global Industrials Conference (Virtual)
REFINITIV STREETEVENTS EDITED TRANSCRIPT BAC.N - Bank of America Corp at Goldman Sachs Financial Services Conference (Virtual) EVENT DATE/TIME: DECEMBER 09, 2020 / 1:00PM GMT REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS Brian Thomas Moynihan Bank of America Corporation - Chairman, CEO & President CONFERENCE CALL PARTICIPANTS Richard Nigel Ramsden Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - MD PRESENTATION Richard Nigel Ramsden - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - MD Hello. Good morning, everybody, and welcome to day 2 of the Goldman Sachs Financial Services Conference. Before we start, we are required to make certain disclosures in public appearances about Goldman Sachs' relationships with companies that we discuss. These disclosures can be found on the webcast page for your reference. So up next, I'm delighted to welcome Bank of America Chairman and CEO, Brian Moynihan. This is Brian's 11th consecutive time presenting at this conference. Brian, we genuinely appreciate you coming along, and we genuinely appreciate the consistency with which you've been here at this conference. I think Brian needs no introduction. I think he's known to everybody on this call. And I think it also goes without saying that under his leadership, Brian has done, I think, an exceptional job in terms of redefining Bank of America and creating tremendous amounts of shareholder value over the last decade. So Brian, thank you for joining us. QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS Richard Nigel Ramsden - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - MD So we always start with this question on the environment. And I do appreciate that this year is a very difficult year. There's a lot of uncertainty. There's a lot of unknowns. But what is your take on the state of the economy today? And as we head into 2021, what is your base case in terms of economic growth, economic activity? And perhaps you can augment the answer by touching on what you're seeing today across your platform, both from a corporate spending, but also a consumer spending perspective. Brian Thomas Moynihan - Bank of America Corporation - Chairman, CEO & President Sure. Thank you, Richard, for having me. It's a pleasure to be here again. I wish we were down in Lower Manhattan. It would be more enjoyable. But just on the overall -- look, our research team has got a projection to end this year 3.5% down for the year 2020 in GDP in the U.S. and up 4.5% next year. But importantly, I think, for our team and the teams across that make up the blue chip, what has been is the travel of that from minus 30, plus 30, plus a few percentage points this quarter in -- but not only the travel generally, but the fact that they've constantly moved forward the place -- the economy across over next year. So we're now at the end of next year '21, early '22, and at one point, we are at the end of '22 and beyond. And so as that marches in, that is reflecting the belief that you've seen through the stimulus money, through the monetary accommodations and through the travel of the health care crisis, which is going to drive the outcome here, meaning the vaccine treatment regimens, you're starting to see people see the other end. Now we're going through another period of time that adds uncertainty to that question, which is which way will it go with these extra -- with the added cases and the human crisis that comes out of that. Will governors and mayors and others react differently than they did last time? So far, 2 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 09, 2020 / 1:00PM, BAC.N - Bank of America Corp at Goldman Sachs Financial Services Conference (Virtual) they reacted by closing things down and restricting activity, which is the right health care answer. But it's not the same type of shutdown as we had in April, May, i.e., all doctors' offices were shut and dentists' offices and things. So I think as we look at it, we feel pretty good. Now coming back to that, the question you asked is, what do we see? Well, across $2.8 trillion of consumer money movement this year, that is up year-to-date through last Friday, it's up 1% over last year. So with all this in and out, it's pretty hard to believe that we actually have our consumers moving more money this year than last year. And that's been pretty consistently exceeding last year, really, since it turned about in August and September and kept building. The month of December is up double digits. Now still early in December, and you have to play through what happens with all the Christmas season and other holiday season. And the difference -- November was up in the single digits, low single -- 3%, 4%. But the idea was what slid, so to speak, was Good Friday -- Black Friday, excuse me, Thanksgiving, et cetera, slid across time. So that means December is up more and November is up a little less. So overall, the spending is robust. In our consumers' accounts, they're carrying a lot more balances than they did before. Even customers that have received unemployment benefits, are carrying 10%, 15%, 20% more balances in the accounts of customers. And that's holding and so it's not depleting quickly. It doesn't mean it won't deplete, and it doesn't mean that we don't need another stimulus. So we feel good about that. On the commercial -- in the consumer loan demand, autos and things like that, mortgage, fairly solid. Credit cards, still, people are spending more of the money they have, i.e., of their debit cards and their credit card. When you come across to commercial, loan growth was stabilizing and the activity is okay. And we expect it to -- right now, we've seen the pipelines build as we're prospecting more, and that serves us well for next year. But commercial payment activity is actually up double digits from last year, and that means the import/export activity is high bringing those goods. And so overall, we feel we're -- basically, we restored the economy at about 95%. We're at 1%, 2% grind in the economy we were before. That's the grind we will have, and we will recover up to where we were over the next 4 or 5 quarters. And the only thing that would change, that is a major change in the health care path that is predicted. Not that it's perfectly predicted, but it's predicted now to sort of vaccines coming in and volumes next year in the first quarter, second quarter, third quarter, and the ability to return to normal is -- towards the end of next year is kind of the core prediction. Richard Nigel Ramsden - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - MD So perhaps we can talk a little bit about the election and the results of the election and the ramifications of that. And you touched very briefly on this. But do you feel that the economy needs another round of fiscal stimulus at this point? How important is the outcome of fiscal stimulus to your view for 2021? And maybe you can touch on infrastructure spending as well as potential changes to regulation as a result of the election outcome last month. Brian Thomas Moynihan - Bank of America Corporation - Chairman, CEO & President One of the questions I always get each election, and I've been in office to have enough of them is, what happens if the election goes this way or that way. And the way I kind of avoid the political debate is I always say, "Look, we've been around for a lot of elections. That one in 1800 was a really tough one. Afterwards, the Vice President was bought up on trees a few years later." So our company will be here, and we'll keep driving what we do, serving clients, customers and communities and driving returns for our shareholders. But what -- when you ask about stimulus, I think it's really a human question. And it really comes down to -- a simple way to think about it is people want to work and they want to get back to work. We have a group of Americans that can't get back to work because their businesses are closed or their businesses are severely restricted. And we need to, I think, continue to provide a bridge to the other side of the river for that group of people. We have other groups of people who are working, 94% -- if 6% unemployment, flip that around, 94% employment. They're working. Their business are open. Our total employee base were up, headcount for the year, things like that. And so those businesses don't need as much help because they can operate in this environment. 3 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 09, 2020 / 1:00PM, BAC.N - Bank of America Corp at Goldman Sachs Financial Services Conference (Virtual) But for the -- I think a stimulus aimed at unemployment -- for the people unemployed to hold them in much better condition, be ready to be employed as we see the light at the end of the tunnel here, I think a stimulus to help the companies that employ them be there, i.e., the restaurants and others that have been shut down and is really impacted by this, that's another round of PPP, and I think then the issues of help for nonprofits in states and governments, they -- we -- I think it's the job of the federal government. In fact, that's what Alexander Hamilton did by nationalizing the debt to basically provide some support to those states who had to spend money that was never planned on because of this pandemic that had nothing to do with them. I think that's the pieces we ought to go through. We'll see what happens. There's good news going on right now that the agreement is coming together. But I think in the size range that they're talking about, it would be a significant stimulus, given where we are in that when they did the first one, we had 15% unemployment. And now, we have 6% to 7%. Richard Nigel Ramsden - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - MD Yes. So before we move into the strategic priorities, I wanted to talk a little bit about how you think about the performance of Bank of America in 2020. And I -- look, I guess the question is this. I think it was at this conference a couple of years ago that you spent some time talking about all the changes that you had made to Bank of America over your tenureship, especially around the composition of the loan portfolio around risk management practices and so on. And I also remember you saying it was going to take a crisis though to prove to people that those changes had been made and they had been effective. I guess we've just gone through the first real-world stress test that we've had since 2008. So if you were to give yourself a scorecard for this year, what would it look like? What stood out to you in terms of the performance of your portfolio? And do you think you've got the appropriate balance in terms of risk -- the risk return profile of the Bank of America franchise broadly where you want it to be? Brian Thomas Moynihan - Bank of America Corporation - Chairman, CEO & President Yes. So I think -- if you think about it, there are 2 questions embedded in that. One is the risk question. The second is you are you attacking, and we can get to that in terms of how we've driven the business and still grown households and things like that in a crisis, which is enabled by the first. So if you think about on the risk side, all things in moderation is not an antediluvian concept. It is something that we live by. So we basically got the portfolios balanced. And if you watch what happened in the stress test results, all but 1 year, we had the lowest losses of the big banks. But what's now is -- that's playing out. And so if you look at our actual charge-offs versus the projected outcome, even with the unemployment at the levels of that, they're much lower, which means we even did better than we thought. We were able to settle the company down and not have to worry about huge cost structures to go into resolving bad loans and things like that. We were able to sit down and go after the clients, and so we went through the portfolios and looked at them. We figured out which clients need help. We're able to provide help to them. Those who get to the markets, we got to the markets. Those are massively different things for this crisis. We were there to take on $275 billion in deposits, $70 billion in loans, conduct PPP, make all the government payments that we were required to make, provide 2 million consumer waivers. And then as the crisis ebbed, as the stimulus and monetary accommodation and people adjusted to what -- how to change their businesses, here we are with the delinquencies in our portfolio as low as they were last year. All the deferrals are basically through the system. We were down to -- 90-plus percent of them are resolved and all that are really left are really around mortgage, which has issues tied to the regulations it requires to wait to get those resolved. The commercial credit book is strong. The industries are impacted. You can see, we built the reserves. And if you said, "You're going to take 1 year and earn $4 billion to $5 billion every quarter, build $11 billion reserves, end up with more capital, from $11 billion in '20 to near $12 billion now." Think about that, Richard. That is a statement about responsible growth, and it actually worked. 4 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 09, 2020 / 1:00PM, BAC.N - Bank of America Corp at Goldman Sachs Financial Services Conference (Virtual) And so what does that give us the ability to do? That goes to the other side, which is we will grow consumer deposit accounts this year 1 million units, which those are 1 million core households with an average balance of $9,000 per account. So these are not, "Let's just open accounts." We announced a thing called Life Plan last week, which was a financial plan -- about few weeks ago, which is a financial plan, and we project to do 1 million of them in the end of 2020. We've done 2 million. And so these are massive deployments in our digital space that have just taken off, not because of the current environment, because of years in the planning, but the current environment may have enhanced them. And so you had to -- it sort of had the best of what we thought, made trading profits in the second, third quarter, every day. I think we managed the risk well. We didn't perform in some of the markets like other people who are bigger in them and stuff like that, but we performed very well, record levels of income. The investment banking capabilities proved well. And yet the core consumer business is growing those core checking accounts in the wealth management business. Andy will hit his target for households in Merryll Lynch this year, which was unbelievable considering we haven't been able to have face-to-face meeting. So that balance enables us just to keep going and do what we had to do for society, for our teammates and for our customers. At the same time, we're able to go out and gain market share. And it's pretty -- that's -- that balance in the credit risk and market risk allowed us to do that. Richard Nigel Ramsden - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - MD And just as a follow-on. I mean, this is also the first time that the whole new regulatory framework that was put in place after 2008 went through a truly stressed environment. Do you think the regulations in any way hampered your ability to service customers? Or do you think they've already worked the way that you would have hoped in that they reduced systemic risk, but they allowed you effectively to intermediate credit and to act as a stabilizing influence in financial contracts? Brian Thomas Moynihan - Bank of America Corporation - Chairman, CEO & President So on a firm-specific basis, we never had to change activity. We had tremendous liquidity. We knew we had it. We were able to put it to work. And it was quite something to see loan demand over 4 weeks go up by $70 billion. It was a pretty amazing manner of question. And by the way, every day, you didn't know what it would end the next day. So the idea, well, if I could have said it was only $70 billion -- or not only $70 billion, and I would have known about that what all it was going to be, that was one thing. But you had to be planning as if it were just going to keep going and going and going and going. And so we didn't need any combination. We were fine in terms of liquidity and capital and never got near the buffers and things. But I think if you look at it from an industry perspective more broadly, we saw some of the vagaries of these rules happen. And so there's a heck of a [patter] about the treasury market. And there should have been. When the treasury market is disrupted and you're having a discussion about whether the government debt is going to be bought and whether we can land this industry to people who carry that debt and own $1 trillion or something like that, $1.5 trillion, that's a question, I think, has to be looked at carefully to make sure that there's stability in those markets. Now what happens if Fed came in and put facilities up? But you'd rather have them not have to do that, for lack of better terms. So I think we need to look at some of those issues about sheer size of balance sheet. When deposits -- $270 billion deposits comes on our balance sheet and trillions across the industry, you have to look at risk list U.S. obligations and how they count some of the liquidity tests, I think those are all fair things to revisit. But I think the flip side of that is, remember, the capital levels were never questioned. And frankly, the stress test proved, even though they did the supplemental scenarios to help prove that, that -- it's pretty amazing when you think you take an industry going 100 miles an hour and successful growth off the longest recovery -- longest economic growth period in American history, and everything going well and then have it run into the wall without being able to touch the brakes. And you look at it and we are still able to put up the reserves, and by and large, the company has made money throughout things even -- we earned above our cost of capital. It's -- that's a pretty amazing outcome. So the regulations, I think, work from that standpoint. But they can always be looked at and tweaked and improved to help the market survive. But I think that's -- yes, that's the key issue for the regulators to look at and think about because the belief that we're going to use buffers and stuff, I think you can't. It's just too fraught with air because what you don't know is going to happen tomorrow. So the idea of saying, "We're going to 5 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 09, 2020 / 1:00PM, BAC.N - Bank of America Corp at Goldman Sachs Financial Services Conference (Virtual) carve into buffers and things like that to support," this isn't -- I don't think works. But on the other hand, I think there's ways that they can look at some of the sheer size requirements, where you have a bunch of deposits, a bunch of cash at the Fed and treasuries. Is that really what they want to constrict you with? Those are things that we need to look but -- and people will. Richard Nigel Ramsden - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - MD So let's segue to some of your strategic priorities. And look, again, I think your priorities have been very consistent over the last few years. So a couple of questions. I mean, the first is, has 2020 in any way changed your strategic priorities? And maybe we can start with the consumer business because I do think that's a business that you've seen a significant improvement in profitability over the last few years. So as you think about the outlook for that business, how has that changed? How has it evolved? And are you in any way thinking of either slowing the timing of investment in your consumer franchise or? Even accelerating it because you actually think the opportunity set on the outside is way too [high?] Brian Thomas Moynihan - Bank of America Corporation - Chairman, CEO & President I think -- if you think about the consumer business, they've done a fabulous job. So over the last 10 years, 6,100 branches to 4,300 branches, digital customers probably from 5 million or so up to 38 million, 39 million, whatever they are today, the transaction volumes. And then those payment numbers, I think, is part of the key, is that our Zelle payments and stuff are up 50%, 60% over last year and more. And so the digitization of the whole business from every aspect, we have just been putting the hammer down and we'll continue to put the hammer down. The question you'd say, "Okay, will you keep opening branches in new cities?" The answer is yes, they're working. And frankly, what you're finding is the ability to shape the branch system because of the digital movement may be faster than we thought, on the side that, that has 10 branches of city, now it only needs 8, which gives you 2 branches to put in another city. So if you look at what's happening in Minneapolis or Denver or Columbus or Cleveland and Cincinnati, we've opened up in the last couple of years Pittsburgh, Salt Lake City. We just -- I think we're up to 12 branches now or getting close to that. Yes, we're seeing deposits come on to the tune of we've moved the top 6, 7 market share in some of these places, starting from, really, 0. I mean, this is not that they're -- you didn't have a branch, and now that's working. And so does the lower-interest rate environment make the core 0 interest deposits less valuable? Yes. But that's looking at them as a borrowing base. It's a customer base, and that's what we're really after. And so the deposit growth in consumer of core checking accounts, high average balances done the right way with the customers, we know that we'll have great lifetime value. The core wealth management business is the same way. The strategies around the integration between our wealth management and consumer business and the movement of accounts and referrals, as we call them, up to the wealth management business, but also combining our training programs and stuff so we can get more advisers on the place, all these strategies work. So I don't think we'll take investment off the table because, frankly, our OpEx capability, operational excellence capabilities, have allowed us to run the company on basically flat expenses for 3 or 4 years in a row. And absent the merchant servicing coming on at about $1 billion and the COVID costs, which will come back out, we'll be back at that flattish level, which is now $54-ish billion plus versus $53-ish plus billion because of the merchant services. But that's pretty remarkable given all the work that's gone on. So we can invest and we can make the money to invest. We don't have to say, "We need to take a few billion dollars and go spend it." Because it's been that relentless investment and operational excellence that fuels it. And we will spend -- next year, we'll move up another $300 million or $400 million in technology, is my guess, in terms of development spending from $3.1 billion to $3.5 billion. And we put $400 million more to drive expense -- operational excellence for the system to just keep pushing the teams and do it. And that sets up '22 and '23, honestly. And still, we'll do that within the numbers we've told you guys. Richard Nigel Ramsden - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - MD Okay. So maybe we can spend a little bit of time just talking about some of the near-term trends. You touched on loan demand and you talked about it stabilizing back in October. As you think about 2021, how are you thinking through what you think the overall loan book should -- could 6 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 09, 2020 / 1:00PM, BAC.N - Bank of America Corp at Goldman Sachs Financial Services Conference (Virtual) be? And I guess, within the corporate business in particular, if things really do start to accelerate in the second half of the year, do you think there's a lot of pent-up demand so that corporate loan demand could really pick up? And what is your base case expectation across the consumer business as well to loan demand next year? Brian Thomas Moynihan - Bank of America Corporation - Chairman, CEO & President Look, if you think about -- let's start with the corporate business. So we came through the third quarter and we observed it was stabilizing, and I'm glad to used the word "-izing" as opposed to stabilize. Because it drifted down a little bit. But it's really, at this point, you're seeing line usage, which has remained an all-time low, not go down anymore, which is a good start. And then you're starting to see the pipelines build. Because remember, back in the second quarter, really when the crisis started, we've told everybody, "Stop prospecting and really dig into your books and understand what your clients are going to need help, and let's go try to help them now before they even may understand they need as much help." So we went through the entire book each quarter when we get the quarterly financials in, sort the clients out, go to try to figure out how to move people along a path of recovery if their business was damaged. And then we did PPP, and that took us 10,000 people that we didn't go out and hire. We pulled from around the company. Think about that impact on ability to prospect and stuff. We'd -- that's all gone through the system now. So now the teams are out prospecting and we're starting to see the pipelines build. So that, I think, bodes well for returning to sort of a normalized growth rate. What I'm encouraged by is that you're seeing -- pent-up loan demand would be too strong a word on the commercial side because they can -- it's not like they're holding back. What they're doing is they're investing carefully. But as the economy keeps moving back from 100 down 70 and then back up to 95 in terms of percentages, that amount of activity requires them to use the lines. And so you're starting to see that bear out. Now against that, there's a huge parts of the clearly identified sectors, cruise ships and airlines and hotels and restaurants that are in different place. And so we haven't seen much demand from that area other than restructuring-type demand. So look, it will play out. We'll get back to single-digit type of growth, and it should have at some point a pop back up if we go from around 30% to 35%, which would be sort of more normalized given the growth of the economy. You'd see a pop back on the commercial side. But the team is working their tails off and out going after the prospects because our business model, we think, is superior. Now when you go to the wealth management business, that's been interesting. The loan demand has been relatively solid there, and we'll expect that to continue. When you go to consumer, you leave mortgage out, which is going to be driven by the rate environment, cards, we've gone from 90 billion down to 75 billion. And you're starting to see that flatten and work its way back up, that's good news. Home equity follows mortgage because the prepayments get it. And then auto has been relatively strong. So we would say the consumer has been careful and safe. And so we'd expect some movement on the consumer side, but you got to be careful about how much in that is moving because things like autos, we're doing a fair amount of production now. Now an interesting, small business, which everybody focuses on, and we're the largest small business lender. We just -- we're talking to Sharon Miller who runs the part like under $5 million revenue companies. So really small businesses. And she said that basically, the SBA originations are 70% of what they were last year, again, because we've swung our credit box back to the middle a little bit because we had to tighten it in the middle of the crisis. So we look forward -- we've always said we'll outgrow the economy. We'll outgrow the commercial loans by about 100 basis points. Consumer, absent mortgage, should be in the same boat. And so our teams are out working their tail off on it. Richard Nigel Ramsden - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - MD So maybe we can talk a little bit about the capital markets business. Maybe you can touch on some of the shorter-term trends that you see. And then, secondly, obviously, you touched on this, but the business has -- or the industry has done really well. And obviously, you've participated in some of that. But as you think about what drove the strength this year in capital market businesses in particular, how durable do you think that 7 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 09, 2020 / 1:00PM, BAC.N - Bank of America Corp at Goldman Sachs Financial Services Conference (Virtual) is adding into 2021? Is that just a reflection of the extraordinary conditions in the first 9 months of this year? Or do you think it actually marks the start of a change in terms of overall key bolts in that business? Brian Thomas Moynihan - Bank of America Corporation - Chairman, CEO & President We'll find that out over the next couple of years because I think it's always hard to predict this business. But when you have record high-grade issuance for the first part of the year, they're driving fees. But just to be very tactical about it, so far, in the trading side, we're up about 15% quarter-to-date over last year's quarter-to-date. We'll see where we finish up, but we feel good about that -- how that team has performed. And that's a good '19 off a good '18, because 18 'to '19, it was up 10%, 15%, I think, if I remember right. So they continue to do well. Jimmy DeMare runs it, along with Sophie and the team on the equity side. They've settled in. They've got a good pattern. When you talk about things that we always are wondering, do we have the risk reward exactly where we wanted? That business returning twice as cost of capital is going to have very good earnings this year. But the question is, given our size, have we grown into our size? And do we need to move up? And that gets to some of the cap -- the SIFI buffer, do we want to go up the other thing? And we're looking at all that. That's an internal investment, it's not a change. But there are areas where we could probably expand a bit, and the team is looking at that, Tom Montag and the team. But they've done a good job. On the investment banking side, our expectation for the quarter is somewhere between $1.6 billion in fees and $1.7 billion in fees, which will be up, again, solid double digits, 10% to 15%. And Matthew Koder, if you remember, I think, 2 years ago-plus when Matthew came in, and we said we just have to turn that business on. And Matthew's done -- he was doing a good job before this. It has shown in this -- in that Matthew has done a good job that we moved our market share up and not only in the ways that we usually did very well in high-grade debt issuance and leverage finance and things like that. But the equity capital markets business has done well, and on top of that, the M&A business, they've gained share. And so Matthew and team had done a very good job. And so we expect them to be up 10% to 15% for the quarter, and knock on wood, everything seems to be going in that direction. Richard Nigel Ramsden - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - MD So maybe we can talk a little bit about expenses. And I appreciate that you're running a business, you're running a franchise and there's a lot of different moving pieces here. But I think the one thing that everybody agrees on is that this pandemic does seem to have changed consumer behavior. And I think you've given some numbers in the past around the amount of money that you spend on processing and cash and checks and how high that is. We've also seen this almost -- to us, it seems, like a seamless transfer to this work at home environment. As you kind of digest everything, both in terms of changes in consumer preferences, behavior as well as what you've learned from having 90% plus of your workforce working remotely, how does it change how you think about the longer-term trajectory for expenses for the overall efficiency of the business? Brian Thomas Moynihan - Bank of America Corporation - Chairman, CEO & President Well, if you think about -- everything digital helps us. And not only does it help us in the way you think about the digital banking customers or interfacing with us on the consumer side. But what we learned a lot in this crisis was a lot more about, to your point about how work process flows and digitizing things like e-signatures, for example, we were marching along, putting that in, in the various businesses. But this required you to do it. That saves you a lot of work. And think of the wealth management business. E-delivery of statements, which saves you money each time that happens, again, customers adopting things, could have get used to it. Even a deposit of a check in the wealth management business went up dramatically. The way that advisers and wealth management talk to their clients, engage with clients, the way we can distribute the knowledge of the firm from Candace's research team 8 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 09, 2020 / 1:00PM, BAC.N - Bank of America Corp at Goldman Sachs Financial Services Conference (Virtual) and Chris Hyzy through by having things like this that you can get out to a lot more people than going around the country, the way the specialists and product support sit behind people, all that, we feel good about along as the day-to-day operational process work taking out. So that's been a -- think about what we did this year is, yes, we will get back to $13.7 billion expenses in the fourth quarter. If that's come back down, we had the litigation last quarter. But if you think about that running, we'll run $1 billion, $1.5 billion of net COVID costs this year to do all the stuff we had to do. Just on health care, we decided to do something so our teammates could provide great customer service when they're working from home. We said anybody who needs to hire somebody to take care of their kids can do that, and we'll pay them $100 towards end of the day to hire someone in your home. We have 2.5 million days have been used on that. And so you can do the math, Richard, because you're quicker with math than I am. That's $250 million. When childcare centers open, when schools are consistently open, that cost will shift back out. And so there's ways that we'll always manage the cost basis down, but we should not forget this year was incentive. So we'll come back down to that more normalized 54 range, which is basically all $53 billion to $53.5 billion range, plus the $800 million or so for merchant services. So we feel good about. But in that is just a massive amount of work going on to transform the franchise. And do the trends help? But remember, we're already pretty digital. And so we got some impact and we'll leverage that impact, but the impact came not as much in the consumer business other people may have seen because we're already there. And yes, it kicked up, and yes, it's higher and all that stuff. But it really came to, say, that payments business because there was no other way to do it, frankly. And so we're seeing a massive takedown on this product we call CashPro. That enables us to keep taking out the paper. Most of the commercial business was digital, but the part that was paper is very intense and it's long to take that part out. So we've said we had $5 billion to do this a few years ago. We chopped away at that -- and we'll continue to chop away -- to move money and currency. ATM and checks are down 20% year-to-date in terms of usage. But the dollar volume is only down like 8% to 10%, which means people are going to ATM less and taking more money off people writing bigger checks. That's all good for us in the -- that's the consumer business. So we'll keep pushing it. But it's across the board. It is not placed with the snap of your fingers. But I think that the team can continue to do this and take advantage of the increase in digital usage in completely different ways to deliver this. Life Plan, to give you example, is all digital. But still, we'll do 2 million this year, 500,000 will be started with people, our teammates talking to clients because they just don't feel comfortable doing it. That conversion, once they're up and doing it, helps us long term. So we'll let it play out. It will happen everywhere, and I think it will provide that basis. When you get to working from home, we'll see how that plays out. There are a lot of our colleagues that would come back to the office tomorrow if it's safe. So once the vaccine is in, we'll adjust to see how that all works. And yes, we'll be able to be potentially more efficient with office space. But we started with 130 million square feet of real estate under use at the beginning of this decade. We are down to 70 million. We already have plans to go to 60 million. So this might help at the margin, but that -- we just have to keep executing the plans we had, and we're looking at all possibilities as a team under Anne Walker's leadership. She does a great job there. Richard Nigel Ramsden - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - MD Look, we have a couple of minutes left so I'm going to take a couple of audience questions. So there's a few on -- just a couple on capital, capital on reserves. So let's start off with one on reserves. And here's the question which is, you set your reserve at the end of the third quarter. That was before the news around a potentially effective vaccine. As you think about reserve adequacy in the fourth quarter, how important is the vaccine news in terms of your overall assessment of the reserve requirement against your loan portfolio? Brian Thomas Moynihan - Bank of America Corporation - Chairman, CEO & President Well, each successive quarter, the scenario we're against has improved. But the improvement then -- also, when you're set -- and as you said, at the end of September, you're actually using August numbers and what the projections are. And that's improved. So you would expect that the improvement in unemployment, that will reflect in the fourth quarter numbers. The improvement again -- going to the critical element, because 9 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 09, 2020 / 1:00PM, BAC.N - Bank of America Corp at Goldman Sachs Financial Services Conference (Virtual) of CECL, you're doing lifetime reserves, is when does the economy sort of get back to the same size, and so you can project that the unemployment levels will continuously work down, et cetera. And so we -- yes, every single factor that you used to set reserves has gotten better this quarter than last quarter. I wouldn't put it all on a new stimulus because that wasn't even accounted in last quarters. It's obviously plus. I wouldn't put it all on a vaccine. I'd put it on the combination of treatment vaccine, the way the world operates, the real unemployment numbers versus the projected employment numbers coming in, the behavior of our customers -- honestly, because unemployment in our customer base is much lower than the unemployment in America just because of the great client selection the team has, all that will bear well. So you should expect that the reserves will start coming down. But remember -- then you got to wait that. Really, what it comes down to, as you think about it, I think, round numbers, I think we're 60% base case, 40% adverse cases last quarter. And you have more confidence the adverse allocation percentage will come down and the base case are running through. What's driving the numbers up is we still -- the uncertainty leads you to factor in some of these outlying cases, adverse cases, realized cases. My expectation is those will come in. Now we'll bring them back based on the models and based on the science, but there's nothing that's gotten not better, and that's a double negative, in every single projection out there. And so you'd expect that, that will start to come in. And it's largely going to be around -- what drives it is really 2 elements at this point: the card business and what the expectation of unemployment, because at the end of day, that's that one. And the second is the affected businesses, the criticized assets that grow in the hotel space and things like that, which are modest portfolios. But that, we got -- we have covered well in reserves. Those are the 2 areas that will be the determinant of what happens next, and nothing has been bad about it. Richard Nigel Ramsden - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - MD And the final question, and we just have a minute for this is, could you talk around your expectations around capital returns, around buybacks in particular? When do you think is a realistic time line for the Fed to lift the moratorium? And what is your appetite to buy back stock in 2021? Brian Thomas Moynihan - Bank of America Corporation - Chairman, CEO & President Well, I think we don't have to speculate another week or so. We'll have -- I guess, a week from Friday, we'll have the results. We -- if you look at us, we are sitting with a requirement of 9.5 in a capital base of basically, let's call it, 12. And so this is not a theoretical case. And we're not returning what we earn. So -- and so we feel good about it. As soon as they let us do it, we're going to drive, at least back to repurchasing shares, to bringing those numbers back closer to the buffers that we'd like to have, even with the uncertainty and the outcomes of the virus path right now, which are getting more certain. So our shareholders should be comfortable that we'll continue to pay the dividend solidly, which we did. But we'll continue to buy back stock as soon as we're allowed to. For me, to speculate on when they're going to do it, what they're doing when this close, let's just let it play out. But the reality is we have a lot of excess capital. And all the work we've done for the last decade puts us in a position that we have -- driving response growth, that we have this excess capital. We've actually earned $4 billion to $5 billion a quarter. We put up $11 billion in reserves. We've taken a movement to do all of these programs and all of these extra costs, that's a substantially -- that's a great performance. And that shows you that our capital is way more than sufficient if you're building capital in the middle of all this. And the balance sheet grew by 20 -- $250 billion, blah, blah, blah, and yet you grew capital through it all. That shows you the complete resilience of this company, and that's -- and so the reward for that should be to let us get back in as soon as we can, and we'll see. Richard Nigel Ramsden - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - MD Yes. With that, Brian, we're out of time, but we really look forward to seeing you next year, hopefully, in person. So thank you very, very much. 10 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 09, 2020 / 1:00PM, BAC.N - Bank of America Corp at Goldman Sachs Financial Services Conference (Virtual) Brian Thomas Moynihan - Bank of America Corporation - Chairman, CEO & President Thank you, Richard. Stay safe. DISCLAIMER Refinitiv reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes. In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized. THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES REFINITIV OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS. 2020, Refinitiv. All Rights Reserved. 13537729-2020-12-09T14:55:36.977 11 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 09, 2020 / 1:00PM, BAC.N - Bank of America Corp at Goldman Sachs Financial Services Conference (Virtual)
REFINITIV STREETEVENTS EDITED TRANSCRIPT VMW.N - VMware Inc at Jefferies CyberSecurity Conference (Virtual) EVENT DATE/TIME: DECEMBER 10, 2020 / 3:00PM GMT REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS Patrick Morley VMware, Inc. - Senior VP & GM of Security Business Unit Sanjay J. Poonen VMware, Inc. - COO of Customer Operations CONFERENCE CALL PARTICIPANTS Brent John Thill Jefferies LLC, Research Division - Equity Analyst PRESENTATION Brent John Thill - Jefferies LLC, Research Division - Equity Analyst Good morning, everyone. It's Brent Thill from Jefferies, thanks and welcome to the cyber summit. Today, I'm very happy to have with us Pat Morley, GM of VMware Carbon Black and served as the CEO of Carbon Black from 2017 till the company's acquisition by VMware in 2019; and Sanjay Poonen , COO, Customer Operations. Just in terms of disclosure, statements made in this discussion, which are not statements of historical fact, are forward-looking statements based upon current expectations. Actual results differ materially from those projected due to a number of factors, including those referenced in VMware's most recent SEC filings on 10-Q, K and 8-K. With that, gentlemen, good morning. Thank you so much for joining. QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS Brent John Thill - Jefferies LLC, Research Division - Equity Analyst The security world is quickly evolving. And I guess maybe Pat and Sanjay, if you could just kind of set the stage of this vision that you're bringing together as a joint team. It's a powerful one and a powerful vision. If you could just maybe, again, just set the stage in terms of the direction that you're going into '21 and maybe just if you could also give us a little bit of background in terms of some of the milestones that you're reaching so far and the things you're most proud of in this joint initiative. Patrick Morley - VMware, Inc. - Senior VP & GM of Security Business Unit Sanjay, why don't you start on that? Sanjay J. Poonen - VMware, Inc. - COO of Customer Operations Yes. Brent, I think this is an important space because we looked at it over the past -- a couple of years as we studied it inside VMware and discussed this with our Board, and we felt -- but if you look at the overall $50 billion security market, it's filled with lots of vendors, 5,000 vendors, and each of them kind of do small pieces of it, 20 broad segments. And several of those segments were starting to become more and more closely relevant to areas we were investing very heavily. As you know, we have 85 million virtual machines. So that's a form of an endpoint. We call it a workload. We have about 80 million virtual switches now with NSX, and NSX is becoming, with 20,000 customers, a platform for networking. So networking -- network security is very close to us. We have tens of millions of endpoints we manage with Workspace ONE: laptops, tablets and phones. This was the technology we originally acquired from AirWatch and extended now to all endpoints. 2 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 10, 2020 / 3:00PM, VMW.N - VMware Inc at Jefferies CyberSecurity Conference (Virtual) So increasingly, we began to see more relevance in our endpoints where customers are saying, "Listen, we have stand-alone security tools that we add to your endpoints, but they're not as integrated in. They feel bolted on." And I've kind of used this analogy in previous speeches where it's sort of like going to a doctor and she asked you how to stay healthy and she -- sorry, you asked her how to stay healthy, and she says, "You got to have 5,000 tablets." So we felt like we've got to redo a broken security industry and make it more intrinsic, the analysts also call the zero trust and what that means is taking key security capabilities and baking it into our platforms and making it, such that you don't need dozens and dozens of other tools, agents, consoles, so on and so forth. And that's what we've done. Another for Carbon Black, we actually began down the journey in network security, and we've built out a full data center networking: load balancing; firewall; SD-WAN, now Secure Access Service Edge. It is the private industry, I think, in a full network security stack. Patrick will talk more about what he is doing for us in endpoint and workload security. We studied that space, felt that was closest to us in terms of what we could do with both Workspace ONE and VSquare, so very excited about that and its road map. And then cloud security is the other area. So we built a multiyear vision on what we're going to do. We announced last year that we have about $1 billion in security business. That was last year, and about 20,000 customers who are well in the races. And we think if we can build, over the course of time, a multibillion-dollar security business, in our quest, we were going from 11 to, one day, hopefully, 20, this will become an important space of adjacency that we can pursue. Patrick Morley - VMware, Inc. - Senior VP & GM of Security Business Unit And the only thing I would add onto that is that if we look at the progression of what we had at Carbon Black and what we've done now inside of VMware and taking that vision forward, the world we're all living in today is really validation of the strategy. So if you -- the reason we built a platform that we did at Carbon Black, a SaaS-based platform that allows you to consolidate functionality and leverage the power of big data and analytics, the reason we did that was because we felt the cloud allowed us to consolidate functionality but also better find -- see and find and stop the adversary. And if -- and our core premise was that the network was going away. Increasingly, you had distributed users, distributed services across the globe that you were using. The cloud would allow you to consolidate. And, oh, by the way, security was maturing, and Boards and executive teams said, "I can't have 5,000 different products, or for most enterprises, 100-plus different products inside of my organization. I need to consolidate functionality." And if we look at what's happened this year in the year of COVID, what we've seen is a tremendous validation of that strategy, right? We're all distributed. We increasingly are leveraging distributed services. The IT organizations and security organizations are fully tapped. They can't manage all these different products. And so I think if we look at where we are today, the strategy that we have puts us on a path forward where we're leveraging the trends that the market wants. Brent John Thill - Jefferies LLC, Research Division - Equity Analyst And just, Patrick, maybe talk a little bit about the integration with the rest of the VMware team and how that's played out, kind of where you're at in terms of this vision of the endpoint to network in the cloud? Where are you at from stitching this architecturally together today? Patrick Morley - VMware, Inc. - Senior VP & GM of Security Business Unit Yes. I would not say we're stitching it together. I would say that we're building it in inherently, intrinsically into the fabric of the platforms that we have at Vmware. Again, VMware is an $11 billion company with -- which many people out there know as the virtualization company. But Sanjay already stated, right, we have a number of platforms, in addition to what we're doing on the infrastructure and cloud side, what we're doing in the network side, what we're doing on the end user compute side. So we've got all these control points out there that allow us to take the vision that we had at Carbon Black, which is leverage the power of what you can do with big data and with the cloud and actually even accelerate it more fully. 3 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 10, 2020 / 3:00PM, VMW.N - VMware Inc at Jefferies CyberSecurity Conference (Virtual) One of the nice things -- we're a year post the acquisition by VMware of Carbon Black. One of the nice things is that I always think when you go through acquisitions one of the -- fundamentally, culture and people are what matter on the success. Obviously, you need the business metrics, you need to drive the business forward, fulfilling this strategy. But the only way you're fulfilling the strategy is if you have a strong connection on the culture and the people, and we've seen that affinity between the way we ran the business at Carbon Black and the way that VMware runs the business. I think there's a lot of shared values there. os you use that as a starting point and you look at what we've accomplished over the last 12 months and it's what you expect, which is first 6 months or so is, okay, let's establish, make sure we really understand from an operating cadence that we've got kind of a plan going forward that we're all embracing and aligned on. And then the last 6 months, I think we're really starting to see the benefits of what we're doing at VMware Carbon Black and overall inside of VMware. And those are a couple of big themes. One is helping customers to understand that, as a brand, VMware is a security company. That's one of the big things we're -- I think we're having an impact on right now in the market. And then secondarily, you actually have to deliver on the product side, and we've done that. At VMworld, a month or so ago, we announced workloads, so we've built intrinsically in leveraging the power of the hypervisor in vSphere, we've built security in natively. We announced that, and we've seen great customer reaction on that. And a real excitement about the fact that we can take away a set of agents and a set of complexity from what they're doing right now to secure, as Sanjay said earlier, those 85 million workloads today that are running on our platforms. And as I said at the beginning, we're also extending beyond just of vSphere into the other capabilities of our platform: network, end user computing, et cetera. Brent John Thill - Jefferies LLC, Research Division - Equity Analyst That's great. Just from -- Sanjay, you mentioned cloud security, and a lot of different names come up when you mentioned that in terms of the competitive landscape. And how are you doing this differently then the Zscalers, the Cloudflares, the others that are going after this from a security as a service? Sanjay J. Poonen - VMware, Inc. - COO of Customer Operations Yes. The term cloud security is a kind of catchall for a number of different areas, and let me sort of parse it aside. We acquired a company several years ago that brought us a cloud security posture management capability. It was called CloudCoreo. We now call it Secure State. It's part of our CloudHealth platform. And basically, what we began to see with many of our customers, they were deeply concerned about both the costs that they were managing in these public clouds. It was kind of getting out of control and they needed ways in which they can [save]. That's, I would say, a CFO type of problem, but CloudHealth is very good at doing that. And then they were also concerned about compliance and security. So we've added a module, and we've kind of made that part of the CloudHealth platform. So you'll see increasing integration between Secure State, which is part of that CloudHealth platform and Carbon Black so that you get a full view of all workloads have ways by which you can get the full definition of your security posture. That's going well. We have lots of customers now that are being able to manage that cost. If you know, there was a prominent financial services organization that had a breach, where, in that case, it was a malicious user, but it could also be accidental, was taking advantage of configuration settings in one of the public clouds, was able to exfiltrate data related to credit card and personal information. So you don't want that to happen, whether it's intentional or unintentional. In the other areas that you mentioned of what also gets called as cloud security because it is a sort of a secure web gateway access into the cloud, we are actually partnering with many of those customers as we build that into the ways in which we think end users will access SaaS applications. So you imagine a user now that goes home. On their laptop, tablet and phone, they typically have like dozens of these agents. We're certainly going to consolidate endpoint management and endpoint security. That's that workspace security concept that Patrick alluded to, the coming together of Workspace ONE and Carbon Black into a unified agent. That's a beautiful concept That's a beautiful concept of just agent consolidation. That's something we hear about from almost every chief security officer. And none of the other endpoint security vendors have the ability to do that. 4 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 10, 2020 / 3:00PM, VMW.N - VMware Inc at Jefferies CyberSecurity Conference (Virtual) Now if you take that same capability and extend it to do some of the things that VPN has traditionally had to do for you and then allow that to then, behind the scenes, go to some kind of secured PoP, if you would, a point of presence, where, in turn, all the cloud security capabilities sit: virtual firewall as a service, SD-WAN, secure web gateway, and then from the -- and turn it to SaaS applications, you're going to significantly simplify the architecture than having to backhaul all that traffic through the data center. And we've been thinking about this for several years. And with the pandemic, that became something that we were hearing from our customers, we need to accelerate. So we actually announced at VMworld our capabilities in that area, Secure Access Service Edge or what the analysts call SASE. And we will see very shortly, we will be bringing out capabilities that extend Workspace ONE into that area. Now how are we getting the secure web gateway capabilities through partnerships with 2 companies: Zscaler in the high end because they have a very strong enterprise presence; and then a lot of the browser isolation and some of the commercial market, we'll get from Menlo Security. So we'll partner that. Now the third category you mentioned were things like CDN, content -- next generation of Akamai of cloud, that's very much a partnership here. It's not necessarily in our -- as we think about edge, maybe we will think about that. It's not in our kind of current landscape of what we're doing in security. So all of those companies are natural partners to us at this point in time. I think in security, it's very -- as we've been sort of charging that security strategy, it's also very important is you're credible to chief security officers and tell them that you're going to do well and where you're going to partner with a handful of those. I mean I think every chief security officer has a bunch of skepticism if one company is going to claim they're going to do everything among the 20 areas, and they're not good in any of them. So we picked 3 to 4 areas that we're going to be best of breed. Like, for example, if you pick up the Gartner Magic Quadrant for aspects of network security like SD WAN, VMware is top right. Even as the firewall vendors have gotten to that space, we are further ahead. Some of them are #3, 4 or 5 in the space. We're #1. So it's very important that we build credibility in the areas and then pick a few partners. Zscaler is one example of that, where Okta is another example, where we will go deep in partnering with them. And they, in turn, are partnering deep with us. So for example, Zscalers named VMware as the preferred SD-WAN player that they're going to partner with. And that partnership means then that Jay Chaudhry and our teams will go close together at furthering our presence in joint accounts. Brent John Thill - Jefferies LLC, Research Division - Equity Analyst And maybe just expand on the go to market and how this vision is coming together in the field. Are you enabling all the sales reps to sell? Have you brought in a SWAT team to go after this? How has that evolution of the distribution come together? Sanjay J. Poonen - VMware, Inc. - COO of Customer Operations We've had a reasonable success with VMware as we've grown, especially in the last 7 years that I've been here. When I joined the company, it was about $5 billion or $11 billion and really investing in specialist teams. It's a model that I've seen successful in SAP. In fact, I ran all the special sales teams at SAP, and we've invested. And today, we have for each of these key domains that our franchise pillars significantly sized specialist teams. Now they are not bigger than the core team. Think of the core team sort of like the Sun, and are like planets. But they're reasonably sized. And they have to be the expertise. Just like when you go to a hospital, you have a general practitioner and a specialist doctor. They have to be the expert in their area. For example, in containers and modern apps, we have an expertise around all of the Kubernetes capabilities. Much of it was invested in from the follow-on of the Pivotal and Heptio and organic acquisition -- organic investments we've made. 5 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 10, 2020 / 3:00PM, VMW.N - VMware Inc at Jefferies CyberSecurity Conference (Virtual) Networking. We've been building since 2012 and 2013 when we acquired Nicira, sizable network and network security team. So what Carbon Black brought to us was an endpoint and workload security team, and we've invested even more. So we took Patrick's organization as he was an independent company and added more. And the first thing I did was added more engineering to him and adding more go-to-market capacity so that we could make that a sizable endpoint of workload security team. Then of course, we have our end-user computing team that's also sizable that we've invested in since the acquisition of AirWatch. So these teams now have certain swim lanes where they work together. But in this case of Carbon Black, they have some nice adjacencies. They have a very nice adjacency with the network security team as that concept of NDR and ADR comes together. They have a very nice synergy with the EUC team as Workspace ONE and Carbon Black come together, and then they have a very core synergy with the core team. We don't have a special team that sells VSquare. Everybody sells a hypervisor. But as we think about agentless capabilities for workload security, they have a very core synergy. Then for the core team, what we do is we get them comfortable with the elevator pitch in each of these areas. How does the connected VMware story really bring in the relevance of cloud, of containers, of security? By the way, those are our top 3 priorities for the company. And that's something Pat and I spend a lot of time on. How do we open the door with a CEO, a CIO or CTO to then have the deeper level of conversation with a line of business developer or a chief security officer. As we've done -- now we're talking to a lot of chief security officers in the hundreds and the thousands. The first thing I hear from them is, "Wow. We love VMware." Now we've been talking about why they love VMware because their boss, the CIO, tells them we should take this meeting of Vmware. They're doing a lot with security. They made us successful in the data center or in end-user computing. So we have a bunch of institutional equity with many of these chief security officers, many of whom were starting to grow our presence and portfolio and relevance with. Patrick and I just did a chief security officer customer counsel. And the amount of feedback and the interest from these are the who's who of chief security officers who are willing to work with us is astounding. And it's because we're building on the credibility and the relevance VMware has already had for many of those customers. Brent John Thill - Jefferies LLC, Research Division - Equity Analyst Yes. Many asked can you do this all in a SaaS environment? Or is this still going to require a lot of on-prem work? Sanjay J. Poonen - VMware, Inc. - COO of Customer Operations Why don't you start, Patrick, on how you've built? Because Patrick is a good example of a leading SaaS asset, and we've leaned forward as we've acquired companies. When we had on-premise, we looked at this space in endpoint security carefully. They were on-prem companies and cloud companies, and we picked Carbon Black as their cloud company. It's very similar to 6 years ago, where we were looking at the end-user computing environment. It is AirWatch and MobileIron. AirWatch was cloud, and MobileIron was on-premise. So we've leaned to cloud very much heavily. But Patrick, why don't you talk about that SaaS capability, about how -- also the hybrid cloud and where relevant on-prem may make sense? Patrick Morley - VMware, Inc. - Senior VP & GM of Security Business Unit Yes. So overall, if you just look at Vmware, right, we're pulling the companies pulling the SaaS and subscription. And certainly, on the earnings calls, that's been a discussion that Pat's had and Zane, talking about the pull to SaaS and subscription. And when you look at security, I think security is an area where we're part of the tip of the spear of that, certainly the Carbon Black business, which is primarily -- which is mostly cloud today. Of course, we started -- our heritage was on-prem, and we've pulled the whole organization to the cloud over the last number of years. If you look at the VMware portfolio in security today, it really has a very strong SaaS portfolio. 6 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 10, 2020 / 3:00PM, VMW.N - VMware Inc at Jefferies CyberSecurity Conference (Virtual) So in addition to Carbon Black, which is cloud-based, all of our services are in a SaaS-based cloud. Workspace ONE is also available that same way. VeloCloud is also available that same way. And you end up in a situation where a lot of the components that we have today are SaaS-based. And even when you look at the infrastructure side, as Sanjay said earlier, 85 million workloads out there. Increasingly, many of those workloads are actually running in public cloud. When we look at securing that, again, we offer -- we can offer the securing of our virtualized workloads as a SaaS service. And as we -- as the company pulls to our modern app strategy, which is Tanzu, so as an organization say, "I want to fundamentally not just shift my workloads up into the cloud, I actually want to build my applications on the cloud," and we look at most of those organizations today leveraging Kubernetes, we have a strategy around that, again, that we call Tanzu. And a big part of our security strategy is also to secure that inherent -- intrinsically via Carbon Black. Again, all of that is Saas, everything I've just described is Saas. So the opportunity ahead for us to be tip of the spear and the security business, I think, is very strong on the SaaS and subscription side. Brent John Thill - Jefferies LLC, Research Division - Equity Analyst Patrick, many ask, it seems like right now, there's a big consolidation of the old -- the Symantec and McAfee kind of not doing what their customers would hope, so there's a big opportunity there. But there's -- on the other side, there's a big competitor with CrowdStrike. And many ask how your approach is different, what you're seeing from CrowdStrike? And similarly, what are you seeing from the Symantec/McAfee endpoints? Patrick Morley - VMware, Inc. - Senior VP & GM of Security Business Unit Yes. Well, certainly, the TAM for the marketplace, traditionally EPP TAM was around $8 billion. As you start to see the transition of where work is occurring, you look at workloads. You look at the -- you look at cloud security. You look at other elements that can be brought into the platform, like vulnerability management, which was part of our recent announcement for workloads, we actually -- with the same sensor, with the same back end, we're actually covering vulnerability management as well. You look at that TAM. So you start to build out very quickly a very large TAM of security services that can be delivered via one cloud platform with one sensor, or in the case of vSphere and Tanzu, without a sensor at all because we're building it in intrinsically. So it's a really, really big market for us and for more. So I think CrowdStrike is certainly a very strong and formidable competitor. And if you look at their strategy and their growth numbers, as much as they are doing today to grab share from Symantec and McAfee, we're doing the same thing. We're also grabbing share from Symantec and McAfee. It's a large TAM. You can have multiple winners in the space, but I think the strategy at VMware is slightly different than CrowdStrike. And again, Sanjay touched on this already, right, which is we -- the breadth of offerings that we have at VMware, when we get this right, and by right, I mean, as we build security intrinsically into -- we've already done it with vSphere, as we do it with Tanzu, as we do it with our network virtualization offerings and ESX, as we do it with end-user computing, Workspace ONE, Horizon, it gives us a competitive advantage because we're already there, and we can just -- security is there. If the customer wants it, they can just turn it on. So our strategy is to deliver great security capabilities for endpoint and workload and at the same time to make sure we're building security intrinsically into everywhere VMware is. And the only other point I'll add is like one of the really powerful things for me, running an independent software company and then come into Vmware, Sanjay said this, but I can't emphasize it enough, our ability to get access at the CIO at the C-level as part of VMware. It's just been phenomenal over the last year. And again, that should be an advantage for us. And because security is increasingly so critical inside of organizations, Sanjay talked about that advisory council meeting we did a week or 2 ago. One of the interesting things I was surprised at is 1/3 of the CSOs there also owned infrastructure. So you -- now why would that be? Well, that's because security is no longer a thing to the side. Security increasingly is being seen as something that's going to be inherent in the fabric of the 7 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 10, 2020 / 3:00PM, VMW.N - VMware Inc at Jefferies CyberSecurity Conference (Virtual) compute for these enterprise companies, and VMware is in the fabric. And so we should be in a position where we can leverage that, again, as an advantage for us as we go to market. Brent John Thill - Jefferies LLC, Research Division - Equity Analyst That's great. And Sanjay, many are asking kind of we went into this year. And obviously, it was a total curveball year for all of us. And everything kind of went on ice at the beginning of the year, and things seemed like they're slowly thawing. And I guess from your perspective at a high level, how customers are feeling now, what you're seeing you're most encouraged by as you go into next year. How would you kind of set the stage? And I know you're not giving guidance. But just at a high level, how your customers are feeling and what -- where you're seeing kind of the biggest openings that maybe weren't open before. Sanjay J. Poonen - VMware, Inc. - COO of Customer Operations Brent, and just one thing I would add to the previous discussion, you should think of us as like CrowdStrike and Palo Alto in one company if you want to think about 2 big spaces. And if you look at the network security space, many of those companies have never been successful with endpoint security. Even historically, I was 15 years ago at Symantec. The endpoint security guys struggled getting the network security. We're trying to do network security, endpoint security and now the new area of cloud. Now to answer your question in related environment, we began the sort of pivot to cloud, container, security. These are sort of top 3 areas of focus for the company well before the pandemic. We saw this as very important. As we laid out some of our vision in the last several years, in fact, the pivot to the cloud as we began our VMware Cloud journey with the public cloud vendors and resetting from the acquisition of vCloud -- sorry, from the divestiture of vCloud Air and investing now. This is 3, 4 years down the journey. With containers, with the acquisition of Heptio and Pivotal now, that's really gone very well in LAN security, doubling down not just in what we have in NSX, but now with Carbon Black. So that continues, and we see good resonance of those priorities with customers. There is a definitive move to the cloud. Our partnership with Amazon and the other public cloud vendors has done really well. We talked about the cloud business being approximately $1 billion ARR business. In the last earnings call, the -- we said we were also really pleasantly pleased by the progress at Tanzu. It's actually done better than our expectations, so we feel really good about the progress we're making. And that $1 billion security business that we talked about, which includes Carbon Black but also includes many other imports, we want to keep growing that. So I think what we've got to do as we kind of accelerate subscription and SaaS, we've certainly seen during the time of the -- this year of the recession and GDP decline, some freeze in the on-premise and the decline in the license side of it, and we'll see how that plays out because it's not like the environments and the CIOs I talked to, there's a student body left to everything public cloud. They still have 80%, 90% of their workloads in private clouds. There's certainly been an acceleration to the cloud, but that care and feeling of the private cloud, all the move to the edge is going to require VMware technology to help them. And that -- we'll come back in due course as the GDP and the economy improves. But in the meantime, in the parts that are moving faster, whether it's cloud, whether it's modern applications with containers or whether it's security because of work from home or other areas of security threats, which you've heard some about most recently, we're going to invest, and we're going to invest and we're going to go prosecute that business with both great products, great go to market. It's a good time when there's a lot going on to double down and making our products the best in each category. That's a key priority for the leaders like Patrick and several of the other key leaders who drive security advancements or the cloud or containers, and at the same time, continue to tune and perfect that. So we've now been using -- we've been using this crisis as an opportunity, so to speak, to continue to tune the machine of VMware and accelerate subscription and Saas. You've seen that 39%, 40%, 44% growth of subscription and Saas. And I believe, as we do that, we'll continue to be stay relevant. The key thing though any of these types of challenges is to stay relevant to your customers. I talked about the chief security officer customer counsel we did yesterday, a bigger sort of customer counsel with CEOs and CIOs just last night. And it was amazing to hear how relevant they felt -- still felt VMware was -- as our guest speaker was Stphane Bancel, who's CEO of Moderna. And of course, we're talking a lot about the vaccine. 8 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 10, 2020 / 3:00PM, VMW.N - VMware Inc at Jefferies CyberSecurity Conference (Virtual) But when I reflected on how relevant VMware is to many of them were CEOs, not just CIOs, I think that if we keep going, we're going to get our fair share of the IT spend. Brent John Thill - Jefferies LLC, Research Division - Equity Analyst Excellent. Well, thank you so much, both Patrick and Sanjay for joining. Great conversation, and have a great end of the year, and looking forward to staying in touch into next year. Thanks again for joining today. Sanjay J. Poonen - VMware, Inc. - COO of Customer Operations Thanks, Brent. Patrick Morley - VMware, Inc. - Senior VP & GM of Security Business Unit Thank you. All the best. DISCLAIMER Refinitiv reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes. In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized. THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES REFINITIV OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS. 2020, Refinitiv. All Rights Reserved. 13537752-2020-12-10T18:10:23.480 9 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 10, 2020 / 3:00PM, VMW.N - VMware Inc at Jefferies CyberSecurity Conference (Virtual)
REFINITIV STREETEVENTS EDITED TRANSCRIPT PTON.OQ - Peloton Interactive Inc at Barclays Global Technology, Media and Telecommunications Conference (Virtual) EVENT DATE/TIME: DECEMBER 10, 2020 / 2:30PM GMT REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS Jill Woodworth Peloton Interactive, Inc. - CFO Peter Coleman Stabler Peloton Interactive, Inc. - SVP of IR CONFERENCE CALL PARTICIPANTS Deepak Mathivanan Barclays Bank PLC, Research Division - Research Analyst PRESENTATION Deepak Mathivanan - Barclays Bank PLC, Research Division - Research Analyst Great. Good morning, everybody. Thanks for joining us. My name is Deepak Mathivanan. I cover SMID-cap Internet here at Barclays. We're super excited to have Jill Woodworth, CFO of Peloton; and Peter Stabler, Head of IR, joining us today. So we have about 25 minutes. I'll go through a list of questions. Jill and Peter, thanks for joining us. Jill Woodworth - Peloton Interactive, Inc. - CFO Thanks for having us. We were just thinking it was very different last year, but obviously virtually good to be with everybody this year. Deepak Mathivanan - Barclays Bank PLC, Research Division - Research Analyst Yes, yes. No, this is a different year in every possible way. QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS Deepak Mathivanan - Barclays Bank PLC, Research Division - Research Analyst All right. So great. So this is a question. I'll kick it off with a question, which we've been asking every company trying to make ourselves smaller and understand potentially about 2021. So I'll throw that question out to you as well. Obviously, demand was really strong in 2020. There's still plenty of uncertainties about 2021. But how are you thinking about some of the demand trends for 2021 as you plan your business for various levels of investments and product initiatives that you have in the pipeline for next year? Jill Woodworth - Peloton Interactive, Inc. - CFO So I know that everybody knows that COVID was obviously a nice tailwind for our business in 2020. But I think the key to 2021 is understanding the way we view COVID's impact on our business, and that was really more of an acceleration of a trend that we believe was already going to happen, which was the transference of fitness from the gym into the home because the home is the most convenient place to exercise, and we have developed a product that people use, which is really the key to fitness. And so from our standpoint, we want the pandemic to end as much as anyone. The big challenge for us, as you know, is COVID created a much more unpredictable demand curve. And so I personally am very excited to get back to more predictability, right? We're scaling our supply chain. But I do believe, when we actually are at the controls with respect to the way we can drive our marketing and media spend to then drive traffic and drive demand for our products, it's going to create a much more predictable growth algorithm for us. 2 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 10, 2020 / 2:30PM, PTON.OQ - Peloton Interactive Inc at Barclays Global Technology, Media and Telecommunications Conference (Virtual) And I think what I'm really excited about in 2021 is our lower-priced Tread. So we continue to believe that we're going to see tremendous growth even beyond COVID. And I think that part -- an important part of that algorithm certainly will be the lower-priced Tread, again, which, I think we've said a lot, is likely to be 2 or 3x as big as we believe the bike opportunity to be. So we're excited for it all to end and excited to get back to marketing and building our brand and product awareness in the way we've done it in the past. Deepak Mathivanan - Barclays Bank PLC, Research Division - Research Analyst Got it. I mean obviously, the penetration into your SAM is still relatively low despite all the strong demand during 2020. Maybe talk about the supply chain side of the business. Clearly, you ramped with the new facility now. Is the facility fully operational? As you think about some of the supply chain constraints, should we expect it to get relaxed over the next few months and then potentially into 2021? Where do we stand on that currently? Jill Woodworth - Peloton Interactive, Inc. - CFO So there's obviously the immediacy of getting our supply chain as ramped as possible. And just to give you a little bit of context on what we've already done. If you look back to the first quarter in 2019, we generated $112 million of revenue. Last quarter, fast forward 24 months, we posted $758 million of revenue. So we've already scaled several fold over the last several months. So really, what we're trying to now think through is the 5-year plan, the 7-year plan, right? We know, in order to have millions of subscribers, you need to sell millions of products. In order to sell millions of products, you need to be able to produce millions of products. And so we've had a full 360 evaluation over the last 9 months of how we're going to get there, right? And I think it's a combination of further leverage off of our existing third-party manufacturers. Certainly, our acquisition of Tonic, in some ways, was very fortuitous 14 months ago, because it allowed us to break ground on Shin Ji and put a lot of investment into building out our supply chain. Shin Ji is on track. That is really more of a medium to long-term solution for us because it is going to take some time to ramp up the production of both bike and treads at Shin Ji. But we're on track. We're excited. We're getting everything ready to start building out our lines of production there. So super excited there. And then we're also trying to figure out other long-term solutions, whether that's stateside production and assembly, whether that's more third-party manufacturers that we need to bring to the table to really help us flexibly manage that supply capacity over time. So -- and even looking at another factory on the Tonic campus. So we've got a lot of different balls in the air, but I think rest assured, we understand the importance to get to that millions of subscriber goal. Have to be able to make the product, and that's really been a huge area of focus over the last 9 months. Deepak Mathivanan - Barclays Bank PLC, Research Division - Research Analyst Got it. Okay. I'll ask one more near- to medium-term questions, and then we'll talk about more interesting stuff. The ocean freight delays that's been reported, and there's been some chatter in the press about how there's been some customer dissatisfaction and cancellations associated with it. I mean, obviously, it seems like given the scale in which you're at, those will be isolated instances. But can you talk about how consumer behavior has been due to these -- some other near-term challenges? 3 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 10, 2020 / 2:30PM, PTON.OQ - Peloton Interactive Inc at Barclays Global Technology, Media and Telecommunications Conference (Virtual) Jill Woodworth - Peloton Interactive, Inc. - CFO Yes. So I would really separate the issues that we've had over the course of the last several months really into 2 buckets. We just talked about supply chain. And of course, that's something that is imminently solvable, right? We believe, over the next couple of quarters, we are going to get back to those normalized order to delivery for our products, and Bike+, in particular, where I think we talked about, we saw some pretty exciting demand for that product. There's a separate issue which is the realities of operating in the COVID world, right? So like other e-commerce companies, there's obviously been a massive acceleration in the adoption of online and e-comm, right? I think the last I looked at was it was almost like 6 or 7 years of e-commerce growth boiled into a 9-month period. And so as you can imagine, that is creating a lot of the ocean freight delays, right? So COVID has sort of -- has created that. The second thing is also -- and again, we're doing everything we can to be as efficient as possible. I know we talked about on our last earnings call, we even air shipped some bikes in order to bypass some of the congestion that we were seeing at the ports. But I believe that this is an issue that's going to be here for a while as we've just seen this incredibly rapid ramp of the adoption of people moving from buying in-store to online. And I think it's just -- I think it's is going to be a reality for a period of time. It's one of the reasons why, into the future, doing things more stateside could makes sense for us. But the other issue is, we feel like we have let some of our customers down. And -- but the reality is it's generally been due to COVID closures of our warehouses. We've fought through natural disasters where we've had to close certain warehouses for periods of time, especially on the West Coast with the fire situation. And so it has -- I think the real angst has really been more around the delivery reschedules, right? It's -- I think at this juncture, we've tried so hard to be transparent with our customers with that initial delivery date, right? It's on our hurricane banner. And we've been, I think, really upfront around the delivery time frames. It's really been the minority of customers who through a port -- through port congestion, through a warehouse closure where we had to shift deliveries for the day, we're just fighting through the same COVID challenges that everybody else is. So hopefully, these are things that will be mitigated over the next couple of months. But certainly, this is very, very frustrating and painful for us to have to work through and see some of the commentary. Deepak Mathivanan - Barclays Bank PLC, Research Division - Research Analyst Yes. No, absolutely. Okay, switching gears here a little bit. One of the things like -- if you see companies like Apple have been able to do is to create an ecosystem where consumers kind of refresh their products at a more regular cadence. I mean, everybody buys new iPhone in 2 to 3 years. Now I think with Bike+ and the behavior that you've seen with Bike so far, what do you think is the opportunity for Peloton to create some sort of behavior like that? Clearly, some of your initial Bike+ buyers were original Bike owners. So do you think there's opportunity to create some sort of like a subscription-esque behavior with your hardware offerings with multiple attritions over time? And do you think -- is there a right way to think about the cadence there? Jill Woodworth - Peloton Interactive, Inc. - CFO I apologize. I did lose Internet for a very brief moment. I don't know if you noticed. I was potentially frozen in time. So I didn't make... Deepak Mathivanan - Barclays Bank PLC, Research Division - Research Analyst No worries, I can... 4 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 10, 2020 / 2:30PM, PTON.OQ - Peloton Interactive Inc at Barclays Global Technology, Media and Telecommunications Conference (Virtual) Jill Woodworth - Peloton Interactive, Inc. - CFO Maybe just do an abridged version of your question. I'll catch you and I apologize. Deepak Mathivanan - Barclays Bank PLC, Research Division - Research Analyst No problem. I was saying that there are a few companies which are trying to replicate like subscription-esque behavior with the hardware by having product refreshes at a steady cadence, so people upgrade their devices. You've seen some of that with Bike+ currently, some of your early buyers. I was curious, with the data points that you have, do you think that behavior is possible for Peloton in the next several years? Jill Woodworth - Peloton Interactive, Inc. - CFO Yes. And I'll be honest, I'm not sure -- if you're thinking about like are we trying to get into a regular hardware cadence, the answer is no. We -- albeit we really build our products to last for hopefully -- when you think about the Bike and the Bike frame, you think about our Tread, we really want our hardware to last 7 or 10 years. Clearly, touch screens, as we've seen in the technology landscape, that has a much shorter lifespan, call it, 3 or 4 years. And we've already -- if you look at our first-generation tablets have actually already offered an at-cost exchange for our earliest cohorts of members. But we want the Bike hardware to last for years and years and years. So for us, the real value is in that subscription, right, that $39 a month. So in my view, the longer it lasts, like we don't need -- we don't want to rely nor do we want to need to rely on people upgrading and replacing their products over time. Clearly, that doesn't mean that we're not going to innovate on our existing products, as you saw with our introduction of Bike+, which introduced a lot of features and functions that our members were asking for. But you won't see it on a quick cadence. It will be in the cadence that we've already delivered on vis--vis the Bike vertical. But that's really not going to be a strategy for us. So -- and we also want a very prudent portfolio for us. It's going to be key to get economies of scale on these products in order to improve the margin profile of these products over time so that we can then make them more affordable like we did the original Bike to continue to grow our addressable market. Deepak Mathivanan - Barclays Bank PLC, Research Division - Research Analyst Got it. Okay. On the subscription side, obviously, we added a ton of new content, expanded verticals. So you've also seen engagement go up really nicely during this period. But how are you thinking about the price elasticities there? I mean I think, clearly, you don't have the need to flex the price now. But the value prop that you have increased seems like has gone mostly as a kind of consume -- captured by the consumers. So how should we think about potentially pulling some of those pricing levers on that side? Jill Woodworth - Peloton Interactive, Inc. - CFO So I would say that the $39 a month is kind of sacred to us, right? We know that for a consumer subscription, it is a higher price point, right, when you compare across Netflix or Spotify or other services. So for us, we love the $39 price point. Clearly, based on the engagement levels and the value that we believe our members get from that subscription, we certainly believe we have some pricing power. But when you look at the economics, right, of our subscription model and you look at the gross profit margin of our subscription business and where we think that can go, we're really happy with that subscription contribution margin range of 70-plus percent, which is where we think we can get to over the next few years. 5 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 10, 2020 / 2:30PM, PTON.OQ - Peloton Interactive Inc at Barclays Global Technology, Media and Telecommunications Conference (Virtual) So from my perspective, we would rather continue to pile more and more value and more content and more software features, right, and more fitness verticals into that subscription than think about raising the price over time to be commensurate with the additional investments. We just want it to be an undeniable value for the consumer, and so really no plans at this juncture to raise the price. Deepak Mathivanan - Barclays Bank PLC, Research Division - Research Analyst Got it. No, that makes sense. Okay. On the digital side, the growth has been phenomenal over the past few quarters. And clearly, you saw a pretty nice uptick from free to paid conversion and then also some stickiness around that. But from a product standpoint, what do you think are some of the areas that you need to tailor it more to kind of sustain growth and make it a product which is addressable for a large subscriber base? Clearly, if you just think about less friction in terms of subscribing to it and the value prop associated with it, you would think the addressable market for digital is a lot bigger than the core subscription business. So do you think there's product tweaks needed or maybe content merchandising inside that, that should be different? What do you think that will take into a scale bigger than the core product? Jill Woodworth - Peloton Interactive, Inc. - CFO So first of all, I would highlight that digital is a very nascent business for us, right? And there are very low barriers to entry for content-only fitness subscription and very low switching costs for the consumer. So it's a really different business model than the one that we've cultivated, right, with Connected Fitness, where there's a buy in, right? There's an initial investment. Even though financing has helped spread that investment over a period of time, the reality is it's -- there's a very different consumer behavior with digital. And we are incredibly bullish on digital, but it's still very early days. When you look across the brand awareness of our products, right, Bike-aided brand awareness is pretty high, but we've got a lot of room to grow. Tread as a category for Peloton is very low, so is digital. So we still have very low brand awareness. It's why things like the Chase partnership have been really interesting to us to increase the awareness of the product. We believe we have the best fitness app on the market, but again, with very low barriers to entry, higher churn relative to our Connected Fitness. Today, we're treating it like an incredibly powerful sales funnel for Connected Fitness. And maybe over time, our -- maybe digital can be millions and millions and millions of subscribers. But I think, in my humble opinion, our focus right now is taking our digital members and helping them convert into Connected Fitness. Most of them tend to use a wide variety of programming. And the good news is, is that in order to get an indoor cardio workout on a Bike or Tread, you need a Bike or Tread. And so our view right now is let's widen the funnel as much as possible. So let's -- obviously, within a cost-effective way, let's get as many members as possible into digital. But ultimately, the point is to drive value by getting them to convert to Connected Fitness over time. So I see it as a great sales channel as opposed to a great long-term business model just given all the challenges, competition, lower margin, higher churn. And to us, it's interesting, but for very different reasons. And thankfully, we have this great high-margin Connected Fitness business that we think is really the bread and butter of what we do. Deepak Mathivanan - Barclays Bank PLC, Research Division - Research Analyst Got it. Okay. No, that makes sense. Can we talk about the geographic market expansion opportunity? I mean I think with the supply chain, particularly in terms of production capacity in place over the next few quarters, it seems like you will now have opportunity to kind of expand into a few other markets. Clearly, U.S. and U.K. are significant. But then there's also other markets where you -- feels like you can enter with very limited kind of incremental investments. How should we think about the milestones that you would like to see before you go and approach some of these international markets? 6 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 10, 2020 / 2:30PM, PTON.OQ - Peloton Interactive Inc at Barclays Global Technology, Media and Telecommunications Conference (Virtual) Jill Woodworth - Peloton Interactive, Inc. - CFO Yes. I mean first off, the global opportunity is massive. But I think at Peloton, we're constantly challenged by the fact that there are so many ways we can grow our business and how do we optimize and prioritize all of the various things we want to do. To date, going into international markets has taken a tremendous amount of effort, right? We are in 4 of the largest fitness markets in the world today that cover half of the world's population that belonged to a gym. So it was important for us in those markets, to your point, to have a fully vertical stack, right, logistics, showrooms, national media spend in order to really drive adoption and accelerate our growth in those markets well beyond what we were doing in the U.S. at the same time. After Germany, the market opportunities in some of these regions really dropped off. And so what we have to do is reimagine how to deliver the Peloton experience in the best way possible without the building blocks of all the different components of our vertically integrated model that's been so successful, right? And do you have a direct-to-ship model, for example, versus your own logistics platform? Do you leverage third-party logistics? What do you do for servicing? So we are certainly excited about continuing to expand internationally. But right now, I think it's probably going to be a couple markets every couple of years. It's not -- we're not going to be -- we're going to be very judicious as we go to make sure that the investment is rightsized for the opportunity. And then as we look into markets, we also might evaluate partnerships, right, or ways in which we can get in at a more rapid clip. So we're super excited about the opportunity, but we're going to probably take it a bit slowly, 1 to 2 markets every couple of years and again think through how to make sure that, that investment is right for the opportunity. What's going to be interesting, though, is I do think you may see us do more foreign language programming ahead of our expansion into international markets. So that's something that could be exciting for us. And I've always thought, too, as digital is a great way to sort of start to see the market internationally, so there's a lot of great ideas that we're thinking about as we think about that -- the international growth. But again, I think the important thing is just to be cautious as we go. Deepak Mathivanan - Barclays Bank PLC, Research Division - Research Analyst Got it. Okay. And then on the margin side, during the IPO, you kind of laid out 10% plus EBITDA margins. Clearly, the business has taken a phenomenally different trajectory right now. And obviously, you have a pretty good leverage in the fixed cost side, and the subscription business has also shown pretty good improvement. And the brand of Peloton has become a lot more powerful under COVID. How are you -- can you provide some updated thoughts on that 10% margin level? It seems like we could be achieving levels there at a fairly quicker pace and also potential areas of the business could provide additional leverage to reach above that margin target? Jill Woodworth - Peloton Interactive, Inc. - CFO So I think philosophically, we believe that we are so in the early stages of our growth and the adoption of Connected Fitness in the home that there is no way that we can't be 100% focused right now on growth. Obviously, I think what we've been able to witness over the last several months is that with scale and therefore, leverage of fixed costs, that our model proves out, right? And that's something we've always said. We've always talked about our unit economic model, right? How the marketing spend pays -- is paid for by the gross profit margin earned on the Connected Fitness unit. And thereafter, if we focus on engagement and have low churn, we have massive upside as it relates to the LTV of our Connected Fitness subscriber. So nothing has really changed there. The fact is we've just pulled in, right, our growth, right, by a couple of years, which has then allowed us to see the leverage of our fixed costs in the model. So there -- we don't really then have a target. I think what we've been able to, again, to show is what we could look like in a more mature 7 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 10, 2020 / 2:30PM, PTON.OQ - Peloton Interactive Inc at Barclays Global Technology, Media and Telecommunications Conference (Virtual) state, right, which I think is a fairly attractive margin, if you look at our margin profile in Q4 last year as well as Q1 of this year when you see a lot of leverage of those sales and marketing expenses. And we still have 105 showrooms. We still have some fixed costs there, too. So it kind of gives you a sense of where we could go. But to me, it would be way too premature to sort of give timing guidance on adjusted EBITDA because, again, for us, it's all about driving the top line. It's not to say we're not disciplined as we spend. But for us, it's -- we want to keep our first-mover advantage, right? We know that a lot of people and competitors have seen the attractiveness of this category. And to us, defending with our moat of vertical integration and continuing to invest to be the best is what we need to do right now. So unfortunately, it means I don't really have a bogey or a time frame for a certain level of profitability by a certain time frame. But hopefully, most of our investors are looking at the growth potential. And the fact that we are the market leader in Connected Fitness, to us, it's most important for us to defend that. Deepak Mathivanan - Barclays Bank PLC, Research Division - Research Analyst Got it. No, that makes sense, and that's fair. Yes, I'll ask again next year. But thank you so much for the time, and we'll wrap it up there. Jill Woodworth - Peloton Interactive, Inc. - CFO All right. Well, it's great to see you. And again, hope everybody has a better '21. And we're excited to have this pandemic end. And thanks so much for having us. And hopefully, we can be there in person next year. Deepak Mathivanan - Barclays Bank PLC, Research Division - Research Analyst Great. Yes. All right. Have a great holiday. Jill Woodworth - Peloton Interactive, Inc. - CFO Thank you. Have a great day. Peter Coleman Stabler - Peloton Interactive, Inc. - SVP of IR Thanks, Deepak. DISCLAIMER Refinitiv reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes. In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized. THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES REFINITIV OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS. 2020, Refinitiv. All Rights Reserved. 13537756-2020-12-10T15:48:50.603 8 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 10, 2020 / 2:30PM, PTON.OQ - Peloton Interactive Inc at Barclays Global Technology, Media and Telecommunications Conference (Virtual)
REFINITIV STREETEVENTS EDITED TRANSCRIPT ABM.N - Q4 2020 ABM Industries Inc Earnings Call EVENT DATE/TIME: DECEMBER 17, 2020 / 1:30PM GMT REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS Earl Ellis ABM Industries Incorporated - Executive VP & CFO Scott B. Salmirs ABM Industries Incorporated - President, CEO & Director Susie A. Choi ABM Industries Incorporated - VP of IR & Treasurer CONFERENCE CALL PARTICIPANTS Andrew John Wittmann Robert W. Baird & Co. Incorporated, Research Division - Senior Research Analyst David Cyrus Silver CL King & Associates, Inc., Research Division - Senior VP & Senior Analyst Marc Frye Riddick Sidoti & Company, LLC - Business and Consumer Services Analyst Sean D. Eastman KeyBanc Capital Markets Inc., Research Division - Senior Equity Research Analyst Tate H. Sullivan Maxim Group LLC, Research Division - Senior VP & Senior Industrials Analyst Timothy Michael Mulrooney William Blair & Company L.L.C., Research Division - Group Head of Global Services & Analyst PRESENTATION Operator Greetings. Welcome to ABM Industries' Fourth Quarter 2020 Earnings Call. (Operator Instructions) Please note, this conference is being recorded. I will now turn the conference over to Susie Kim, Vice President of Investor Relations and Treasurer. Thank you. You may begin. Susie A. Choi - ABM Industries Incorporated - VP of IR & Treasurer Thank you all for joining us this morning. With us today are Scott Salmirs, our President and Chief Executive Officer; and Earl Ellis, our new Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. We issued our press release yesterday afternoon announcing our fourth quarter and fiscal 2020 financial results. A copy of this release and an accompanying slide presentation can be found on our corporate website. Before we begin, I would like to remind you that our call and presentation today contain predictions, estimates and other forward-looking statements. Our use of the words estimate, expect and similar expressions are intended to identify these statements. These statements represent our current judgment of what the future holds. While we believe them to be reasonable, these statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially. These factors are described in a slide that accompanies our presentation as well as in our filings with the SEC. During the course of this call, certain non-GAAP financial information will be presented. A reconciliation of those numbers to GAAP financial measures is available at the end of the presentation and on the company's website under the Investor tab. Before we begin, I'd like to remind everyone that Earl joined less than a month ago after the fiscal year-end. And although quickly acclimating himself to the business, should you have any questions after today's call, please follow up with Investor Relations accordingly. I would now like to turn the call over to Scott. 2 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 17, 2020 / 1:30PM, ABM.N - Q4 2020 ABM Industries Inc Earnings Call Scott B. Salmirs - ABM Industries Incorporated - President, CEO & Director Thanks, Susie, and good morning, everyone. Thank you for joining us on today's call. And we hope you and your families are safe and healthy. It's hard to believe we're already at the close of 2020 and covering our fourth quarter results. On the other hand, we are about to discuss only the second full quarter of COVID-19's impact on our financials. For Q4, we reported revenues of approximately $1.5 billion for the quarter. This represents a 9.9% decline versus last year and a considerable sequential improvement when comparing to our more than 15% decline in Q3. Once again, our diversified client base demonstrates the resilience of our business. Our Technology & Manufacturing industry group grew almost 7%, and Business & Industry as well as Education posted revenue results that were only slightly down. As one would expect, our Aviation segment drove the majority of our organic decline versus last year. Technical Solutions also saw a large revenue decline and continue to see challenges in site access, which affected churn rates. Positively, the backlog of committed work in Technical Solutions is healthy, and the pipeline for '21 is robust. So all things considered, it was a good revenue story for the quarter. From a profit perspective, there was sustained demand for higher-margin COVID-related work orders in our EnhancedClean program, particularly in Business & Industry and Technology & Manufacturing. Our financial performance was protected by our variable labor model and our ability to dynamically adjust staffing based on demand. And we continue to see profit arbitrage by efficiently managing labor as we scaled and consolidated staff during the quarter. This has been one of the key contributors of our financial performance through the pandemic. As a result of all of these factors, we grew earnings on both a GAAP and an adjusted basis versus last year. Income from continuing operations grew to $53.1 million or $0.78 per share. On an adjusted basis, we delivered $46.7 million or $0.69 per share. Adjusted EBITDA margin rose to 6.2% versus 5.6% last year. Even more compelling, these results incorporate a noncash reserve we took for an entertainment-related project within our Technical Solutions segment. This was a unique circumstance and client and not a reflection of our broader project portfolio within Technical Solutions. This had a 120 basis point impact on our adjusted EBITDA margin as well as our earnings. So even when including this distinctive event, quarter after quarter, our performance continues to demonstrate consistent strength and execution. In so many ways, 2020 will stand out as a pivotal year for ABM. The pandemic has created a shift in the public mindset as professional Class A janitorial services are now unquestionably viewed as an essential and nondiscretionary service. Facility owners must demonstrate that they are providing clean, healthy and safe spaces that their occupants can trust. Not only will this be required, but it will be a reflection of their brand. Our response with our EnhancedClean service gives our clients a peace of mind that comes with studied protocols and practices that keep facilities safe. And this offering creates even more distance between us and our competitors. As a company that's been around for more than 110 years, ABM has withstood and grown during many global events, but 2020 tested us in historic ways, and I've never been more inspired by our organization. I want to take a moment to recap some of our team's accomplishments more specifically. Since March, we have been on the front lines battling a pandemic that has disrupted nearly every industry. While navigating a constantly evolving environment as we learn more about the virus, we prioritize the health and safety of our employees and our clients above all. And when it came to PPE and our global supply chain, our procurement team did not disappoint when others in our space did, as they couldn't accommodate surging demands. Also, we partnered with large cleaning contractors to form the Cleaning Coalition of America to represent our industry, which played a critical role in restoring our country. The coalition plans to press for vaccine priority for our industry and develop a focused campaign on awareness around what differentiates best-in-class providers. At ABM, we were particularly proud of how we proactively developed our own expert-backed certified programs to answer our clients' needs with disinfection protocols such as specialized training and signage, electrostatic spraying of disinfectant and air filtration. And all of this is being supported by one of the most comprehensive marketing campaigns we've ever developed. What shouldn't be minimized is the fact that we mobilized multiple cross-functional task forces across all the critical areas of our business that elevated our adeptness and will endure long past the pandemic. These task forces led to improved operating procedures for labor management, sales and financial activities. 3 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 17, 2020 / 1:30PM, ABM.N - Q4 2020 ABM Industries Inc Earnings Call As an example, our approach to collections led us to generate more than $450 million in cash flow from operations and $420 million in free cash flow, both records for the firm. This translates to nearly $1 billion of liquidity, including $400 million of cash, which is an extremely powerful position to be in during still uncertain times. As we move into 2021, our intention is to capitalize on the momentum and shift from defense to offense. Beginning with our executive team, we recently announced several appointments to further align our internal organizational structure to our business strategies. First, I'm pleased to introduce our new CFO, Earl Ellis, on this morning's call. Earl is a seasoned finance executive joining us from Best Buy, a leading Fortune 500 provider of consumer technology products and services with 125,000 employees in North America. Earl held several executive positions across finance and most recently, he was responsible for leading enterprise capital project planning, plus transformation and procurement as well as supporting digital and technology and global real estate. During his tenure at Best Buy, Earl also spearheaded several strategic initiatives targeting labor and logistics. Earl joined less than 3 weeks ago but is quickly immersing himself in our business. I'm also excited that Ren Jacobsen has been promoted to Chief Operating Officer and will lead all of our client-facing industry groups. Since joining ABM 8 years ago, Ren has consistently driven our operational performance and service excellence, and his leadership was unquestionably instrumental in our successful navigation of 2020. As COO, he will provide a strategic guidance for our operations and drive our financial results across all of our platforms. Ren will also continue to work with Sean Mahoney, our new President of Sales and Marketing. Since Sean's arrival at ABM in 2017, we've broken sales records each succeeding year, and we achieved another record in 2020 with new sales at $1.2 billion, an amazing accomplishment for any year, but especially in a year when so much of the economy was paused. With both Ren and Sean's leadership, our operations and sales teams proved to be a powerful combination in 2020 and will undoubtedly exceed our expectations in 2021. Speaking of 2021, later in the year, we will be sharing our refresh business strategy, which builds on the positive changes and the acceleration we saw with our 2020 vision. At that time, we will be reviewing our technology plan and path towards a digital platform for our employees and clients. In fact, just as I discussed last quarter, some of our near-term investments are reengagements of IT projects that were put on hold due to the pandemic, like our ERP system and data management road map. Other investments will be new given the opportunities that arose as a result of the pandemic, such as EnhancedClean and the associated build of that program. On that front, from a payback standpoint, we concluded the year with over $300 million in sales for our EnhancedClean program and COVID-related activities. And we have some really exciting sales and marketing plans lined up over the next few months to continue accelerating and differentiating ourselves in the marketplace. Of course, we will be responsible in our investment approach given how fluid the operating environment is, but we recognize that we must plan for the long term while also keeping our maniacal focus on what the near term may bring. There is no doubt that conditions remain uncertain, particularly as we operate over the winter months. COVID cases continue to rise throughout the country, and I'm sure you've seen or experienced various stages of closures in your own communities. Unfortunately, the operating environment isn't any more predictable than it was last quarter. Clients are still generally managing for the shorter term as they react to resurgences, which caused occupancy volatility. And they don't yet have the ability to predict when the workforce at large will return. While vaccine news is encouraging, the widespread availability and use is also an unknown today, which could impact the timing of recoveries and reopenings. Therefore, our visibility remains limited. And as you would expect, we are not providing guidance for the full fiscal year in 2021. However, we are going to share our near-term expectations for the first fiscal quarter. This is the only time we anticipate guiding to such a short-term view given the uniqueness of the moment. For the first quarter, we expect GAAP EPS of $0.53 to $0.58 in earnings per diluted share or adjusted EPS of $0.60 to $0.65 per diluted share. These ranges compare to last year's $0.41 and $0.39, respectively, both considerable increases on a year-over-year basis. We also expect adjusted EBITDA margin in the range of 6.1% to 6.4%, expanding from 4.3% last year. At this time, we believe we may have seen the bottom in revenue compression as a result of COVID-19. Sequentially, we could see similar to slightly better organic declines than what we saw in Q4. We also anticipate good demand for pandemic-related work orders and EnhancedClean to continue throughout Q1. The investments I discussed earlier should also continue into Q1, which you will see in both our segment profit and corporate lines. In general, investments will continue throughout fiscal 2021, but the magnitude and cadence will be determined by both our long-term strategy 4 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 17, 2020 / 1:30PM, ABM.N - Q4 2020 ABM Industries Inc Earnings Call and where we see the broader recovery going. Earl will go through more detail on some of the assumptions for the quarter and year, which is obviously still dynamic. Should we have better line of sight for the full year by Q2, we would anticipate providing full year guidance at that time. Before I turn the call over to Earl, I want to thank our team members again for their dedication to our purpose as a company, to take care of the people, spaces and places that are important to you. This purpose has never meant more than it does today. Our value to clients has risen because our teams have been the ambassadors of our brands and demonstrated the operational excellence that sets ABM apart from our competitors. Nine months ago, we couldn't have imagined how 2020 would culminate for ABM. We not only exceeded our pre-COVID expectations but actually accelerated into our long-term EBITDA margin range of 5.5% to 6%. Our 2020 vision journey has come to a climactic transition, leading us into the next phase of growth and excellence and building on our strong foundation to propel us into the future. Next year will also mark our 50th anniversary on the New York Stock Exchange, and we look forward to celebrating this milestone in ABM's history. So while last year, was certainly a memorable one for our organization, I am now looking forward to the opportunities that lie ahead and are more excited than ever. Now to Earl, who will cover our financial results. Earl Ellis - ABM Industries Incorporated - Executive VP & CFO Thanks for the warm welcome, Scott. I am so excited to be part of the ABM team. I recognized early on that the culture here is so special and unique. Even in just my first few weeks here, I have witnessed an exceptional drive to collaborate and execute that clearly sets ABM apart. As I spend the next several months diving into the business, I look forward to developing and sharing my perspectives on our financial strategies over future calls. Now on to our quarterly results. Revenue for the quarter were $1.5 billion, a total decrease of approximately 9.9% compared to last year, reflecting our second full quarter of COVID-19 revenue decline, particularly in the Aviation and Technical Solutions segments. Partially offsetting this revenue decline was continued demand for higher-margin work orders that we have been providing for our clients through the pandemic, particularly within Business & Industry and Technology & Manufacturing. GAAP income from continuing operations was $53.1 million or $0.78 per diluted share compared to $48.1 million or $0.71 last year. These results reflect the continuation of favorable claims trends related to self-insurance reserves. We saw a benefit of $21.3 million in self-insurance adjustments, of which $6.2 million was related to the current year. On an adjusted basis, income from continued operations for the quarter increased to $46.7 million or $0.69 per diluted share compared to $44.7 million or $0.66 last year. Similar to the third quarter, our GAAP and adjusted earnings growth versus last year was driven primarily by a significant increase in higher-margin work orders as clients respond to COVID-19 as well as the continued management of direct labor to align with the demand environment for legacy services. Partially offsetting these results was a $17.6 million reserve for notes receivables for a project related to a unique family entertainment customer within the Technical Solutions segment. We are currently working with the client to resolve this issue. In addition, operational investments in such areas as our EnhancedClean program continued, which was embedded in our operating segment result. We also reengaged certain corporate projects such as investments in IT that were previously put on hold as we prioritize business continuity during the pandemic. This amount was approximately $10 million for the quarter. On a year-over-year basis, the fourth quarter also experienced 1 less workday, which equated to approximately $6 million in labor expense savings. I'll speak about the cadence of our working days for fiscal 2021 later in the call, but the number of days in the first quarter of fiscal 2021 will be comparable at 65 days. Our overall performance during the quarter led to adjusted EBITDA of approximately $92.5 million at a margin rate of 6.2% compared to $93 million or 5.6% last year. Now for a discussion of our segment results. As a reminder, these results reflect the ongoing impact of COVID-19 on revenue. Operating profit reflects the mixed shift towards higher-margin work orders, labor modulation on legacy service demand as well as operational investments such as EnhancedClean. B&I revenues were $794.3 million, down just 1.6%. We're encouraged by the sequential top line improvement compared to a decline of 6.3% last quarter. The pandemic's negative impact on our Parking and Sports & Entertainment business continued this quarter, similar to Q3. Offsetting this COVID compression and the loss of some lower-margin business, we had consistently strong demand for higher-margin 5 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 17, 2020 / 1:30PM, ABM.N - Q4 2020 ABM Industries Inc Earnings Call pandemic-related work orders. This led to a more favorable mix of B&I business that led to operating profit growth of more than 65% to $84.7 million, with a margin rate of 10.7%. Another very resilient segment for us during the pandemic has been our T&M business. Revenues were $245.2 million for the quarter, up 6.7% versus last year. Operating profit grew more than 30% to $23.5 million for an operating margin of 9.6%. This segment is particularly comprised of essential service providers such as biopharma, logistics and industrial manufacturing. As a result, demand has been driven by work order and EnhancedClean work, more than offsetting any COVID-related and other account losses throughout the year. In Education, we reported revenue of $212.2 million, reflecting the new school season and the adoption of hybrid models across our K-12 and higher education portfolios. Operating profit of $15.1 million or 7.1% margin reflects labor-related savings as a result of modified staffing at site locations during the pandemic. As many of us are likely experiencing today with our own children, there remains a great deal of variability in this segment as different cities respond to resurgences, particularly ahead of the holiday season. We continue to monitor development and partner with our clients to address both day-to-day cleaning and disinfection needs as well as longer-term budget constraints where our Technical Solutions offering can be compelling. Aviation reported revenues of $141 million and an operating profit of $3.5 million, clearly demonstrating how the pandemic continues to have a dramatic impact on the industry. However, as discussed last quarter, our goal was to achieve a breakeven position or better by the fourth quarter. We are pleased to have closed the year in a profitable position. And now on to Technical Solutions, which reported revenues of $123.1 million compared to $175.5 million last year. As a reminder, this segment experienced phenomenal growth last year, exceeding 25% during Q4 of fiscal '19. In addition to tougher compare, site access has been disrupted by the pandemic. Backlog remains in our healthy zone, which we've historically defined as above $150 million. We are actively monitoring our ability to churn through these projects. The operating loss of $3.6 million was driven by a reserve of notes receivables related to a single entertainment customer and associated with the client increasing credit risk resulting from the pandemic, which we continue to pursue. Turning to cash and liquidity. During the quarter, we generated a record $198.7 million in cash flow from operations and free cash flow of $189.6 million for the quarter. This led to $457.5 million in cash flow and $419.5 million of free cash flow for the year. As a reminder, these results include $101 million in deferred U.S. payroll taxes as a result of the CARES Act, which will be due in 2021 and 2022. Even excluding this, these are records for the year. Due to our strong cash position, we ended the quarter with total debt, including standby letters of credit, of $883.4 million and a bank-adjusted leverage ratio of 2.1x. Additionally, we ended the quarter with cash and cash equivalents of $394.2 million. During the quarter, we paid our 218th consecutive quarterly cash dividend for a total distribution of approximately $12.3 million. And as stated in our earnings release, I am pleased to share that our Board of Directors approved our 219th consecutive quarterly cash dividend. Now for a quick recap of our annual results. Total revenues were approximately $6 billion, a decrease of 7.9% versus last year. The decrease in revenues was attributable to the COVID-19 pandemic's impact on business operations, predominantly during the third and fourth quarters of this year. Our GAAP income from continuing operations for fiscal 2020 was $0.2 million. On an adjusted basis, income from continuing operations for the year was $163.5 million or $2.43 per diluted share. Adjusted EBITDA for the year increased 6.6% to $361.9 million, and we ended the fiscal year with an adjusted EBITDA margin of 6%. Now turning to our guidance outlook. We are providing guidance for the first quarter of fiscal 2021. At this time, we expect GAAP EPS to be in a range of $0.53 to $0.58 and adjusted EPS to be in a range of $0.60 to $0.65. Adjusted EBITDA margin is anticipated to be between 6.1% to 6.4%. This guidance outlook assumes organic growth will be sequentially flat to slightly improved versus the fourth quarter of fiscal 2020. We anticipate the higher margin work orders and labor efficiencies to continue into the first quarter. And as Scott discussed extensively, we are planning to invest in fiscal 2021. The first quarter will see the same level of investments that we saw during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2020 of approximately $10 million. The first quarter will also have 1 less working day versus last year, which could lead to approximately $6 million in lower labor expense. However, we are preparing for the potential for higher payroll taxes beginning in January for SUI as well as federal taxes such as FICA. With respect to interest, based on our operating expectations for the first quarter and our current cash position, we do not anticipate an increase in borrowings compared to the fourth quarter. Therefore, sequentially, interest expense should decrease slightly due to the continuing amortization 6 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 17, 2020 / 1:30PM, ABM.N - Q4 2020 ABM Industries Inc Earnings Call of our term loan. The tax rate for the quarter is anticipated to be approximately 30%. This rate excludes discrete tax items such as the work opportunity tax credit and the tax impact of stock-based compensation awards, the total impact of which we currently expect will be under $1 million in Q1. As it relates to fiscal 2021, as illustrated in today's presentation, there will be 1 less working day in the new fiscal year, 1 less day in Q1, 1 more day in Q2, 1 less day in Q3 and flat to last year in Q4. With respect to cash flow, we assume government-related benefits in the U.K. and U.S. such as the CARES Act will not recur. This should be considered when ascertaining free cash flow for the new fiscal year. However, we drove higher free cash flow as a result of sharper operational practices in response to the pandemic, and we intend to continue to uphold these standards and disciplines. Lastly, related to taxes. In fiscal '20, our full year impact for the Work Opportunity Tax Credit was $4 million, reflecting the pandemic's impact on traditional higher-end practices. Currently, WOTC is expected to expire on December 31 of this calendar year. However, we are actively monitoring Congress for related actions, including an extension on WOTC. Before I turn the call over to the operator, I'd like to reiterate my excitement about being part of the ABM team. On the heels of such strong results for 2020, I look forward to sharing more with you over the coming quarters. Operator, we are now ready for questions. QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS Operator (Operator Instructions) And our first question comes from Andrew Wittmann with Baird. Andrew John Wittmann - Robert W. Baird & Co. Incorporated, Research Division - Senior Research Analyst I guess my question -- my first question here has to do with the margins, and they are obviously very good. You guys have continued to positively surprise here over the quarters. And so I wanted to dig into that, particularly on the gross margin expansion, I guess. I was hoping that you could give us some sense about how much of the gross margin expansion that you're posting is purely from the mix of having so much more tag revenue and less parking revenue, things of that nature, so mix benefit, from what seems like you guys have actively really managed your labor pool against the base business to drive efficiencies there. So I know that might be a hard question to quantify, but I thought I would try and see what you could tell us so we can understand kind of some of the moving pieces inside of it. Scott B. Salmirs - ABM Industries Incorporated - President, CEO & Director Yes. Sure, Andy. And good to hear you. Look, a majority of the margin increase did come from pandemic-related work orders and also our EnhancedClean and then also our labor management. It's probably about 50-50 in terms of contribution. And so it's been a really good story for us. And I think the better story is that we're continuing to see momentum into the first quarter, which is reflected in the quarterly guidance. And we wish we could give full year guidance to give you a better sense of it, but it is really still early on. But I will tell you, Andy, the one thing that has changed, I think if you were to look maybe a couple of months ago, you would think that this was -- with the vaccine coming, it would be more of a binary event. And is this all going to be over in October, right? And I think what we're starting to learn now that this isn't a quarter-by-quarter event. There's going to be a rollout of these vaccines. There's going to be some supply chain issues. And we've even seen that. From all the polls I've seen, at least 50% of the population is either going to take the vaccine. So we think this is going to be a longer-term story than something that, again, is going to be feeling like more binary. 7 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 17, 2020 / 1:30PM, ABM.N - Q4 2020 ABM Industries Inc Earnings Call And then you think about kind of the office environment, and you're going to have some people that are taking the vaccine, some people that aren't taking the vaccine. So there's still going to be people wearing masks. There's still going to be a need to disinfect because I'm not sure they've even figured out whether or not if you've been vaccinated, you can still transmit it, right? And then the question is how long does the vaccine last? So there's so many uncertainties there. So whereas, again, I think earlier in the year, we thought this could be maybe a quarterly story. I'm not sure. It's not a longer-term yearly story right now. So -- and we're seeing the heightened awareness. So I don't think the momentum is going to change anytime soon. Andrew John Wittmann - Robert W. Baird & Co. Incorporated, Research Division - Senior Research Analyst Yes, I wanted to dig in on that. I'm glad you kind of went that direction, Scott, because as -- I mean you obviously had to de-scope with your customers, obviously not occupying so much space. And it feels like, and I guess you just said that basically, as they've de-scoped. You've managed your labor probably even better and that's afforded you some margin improvement. I guess the question -- the addendum to that is as we do reopen at whatever pace that is, and you do have to re-layer in labor as your customers are more occupied and need more services, do you expect that you'll be able to retain some of this margin? All of this margin? Or do you feel like you'll have to progressively give some of the profit margin back to your customers? I was just wondering how you see that playing out. Scott B. Salmirs - ABM Industries Incorporated - President, CEO & Director Sure. So look, I think the labor efficiencies that we're getting now -- because remember, offices are 10% occupied, right? And think of this, it's 10% occupied, but yet our revenues are only 10% down, you could make a case why aren't they 90% down, right? So I think as we restaff, we'll lose some of that labor arbitrage. Our goal is to maintain some of it, but we're certainly not going to maintain all of it. That wouldn't be sensible. So I think we're going to capture permanently some of that labor arbitrage. And then from the COVID-related activities, I think we're going to retain a fair amount of that just because of the awareness. And the flip side to all this, Andy, is that as we reoccupy it's going to turn into a revenue story, right? Because people are going to be back. And so I think we'll start seeing growth again. And we're thinking that's probably more of a back half story. For us, it's always been about momentum. We just want confidence and momentum. So I think the vaccine is going to start doing that. So whereas you may see a little trail down in margin from the labor efficiency, you'll see revenue go up. Andrew John Wittmann - Robert W. Baird & Co. Incorporated, Research Division - Senior Research Analyst That makes sense. If you will, for me, just one last question. I wanted to ask about some of the investments. I think you said the word investments a few times on the conference call. That does seem pretty material here. And I just wanted to make sure that we're all understanding this correctly. I think when you -- when fiscal 2020 started before the pandemic, so pre-pandemic guidance, you guys were talking about putting in an incremental like $20 million, mostly related to IT initiatives and digitization process things, if I'm not mistaken, pretty sure that's correct. But now we heard here in this quarter that it was $10 million up just for this quarter and that there's another $10 million for next quarter. So that's $20 million already, and it feels like the run rate of investments obviously, therefore, is a lot larger than you thought about at a year ago at this time. So I guess, first of all, can you validate that? And then the second thing is, what else are customers and shareholders going to be benefiting from? How else is that going to be seen in your results, so that we know that you're getting a good return on these incremental investments? 8 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 17, 2020 / 1:30PM, ABM.N - Q4 2020 ABM Industries Inc Earnings Call Scott B. Salmirs - ABM Industries Incorporated - President, CEO & Director Yes. That's a great question. So I think let's go back where you started. Pre-pandemic, we were talking about the ERP, right? That was the big deal for us. And we did say that we were going to pause that because we were -- obviously, it was a liquidity event, right, the pandemic. So as we started getting strong from a liquidity standpoint and our results, we said we got to go back at this again. But I think the pandemic changed so much, and it caused us to rethink our longer-term tech road map. And with a remote workforce with -- at ABM and with clients being remote, we said we have to rethink that. So we're going through this what we would call an exploration phase of how do we move forward? How do we create this digital platform? How do we look at how we're going to interact with clients? And how do we look at how we're going to interact with our workforce from a workforce management standpoint? So all that is underway. And that's the investments that you're really seeing when you talk about that $20 million, the $10 million and the $10 million. And it's all going to be founded on the ERP system as the first leg of this thing, right? Because you need to have your data. You need to have a good financial system. So I think as the year unfolds, we'll have a better story of how much we're spending, how much will be capitalized versus OpEx. So we'll be thinking about that. And so we'll give you more color as it goes on, as the strategy framework shapes up. But I think the backdrop to all this is we're going to be prudent. We are still in the middle of pandemic. So even with these investments, Andy, if things get squishy in the economy with resurgences, we could always pull those back. Was that helpful? Andrew John Wittmann - Robert W. Baird & Co. Incorporated, Research Division - Senior Research Analyst It is. Happy New Year. Happy holidays to everyone. Scott B. Salmirs - ABM Industries Incorporated - President, CEO & Director Same to you. Operator Our next question is from Sean Eastman with KeyBanc Capital Markets. Sean D. Eastman - KeyBanc Capital Markets Inc., Research Division - Senior Equity Research Analyst Earl, welcome. Welcome. Earl Ellis - ABM Industries Incorporated - Executive VP & CFO Thank you, Sean. Sean D. Eastman - KeyBanc Capital Markets Inc., Research Division - Senior Equity Research Analyst I want -- I wanted to go back to just the sustainability of margins. I'm just trying to understand this transition from shorter-term planning, work order dynamic to EnhancedClean uptake. What has been sort of the margin impact from moving over to that more permanent contract structure within EnhancedClean? And maybe you could just comment on the uptake on EnhancedClean since inception there. Scott B. Salmirs - ABM Industries Incorporated - President, CEO & Director That's great. And I'm glad you asked that actually because we can clarify that. So when you think of pandemic-related activities, which -- and just think large-scale disinfecting spaces, right? And I think we've talked about this before, it's basically the types of chemicals that we were using in 9 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 17, 2020 / 1:30PM, ABM.N - Q4 2020 ABM Industries Inc Earnings Call pantries and in bathrooms is now being used in general office space to disinfect, right? And there's 2 ways that clients are going about it. They're either hiring us based on a work-order basis, which, again, just to make it real simple, they talk to us on a Monday and say, "Hey, Thursday night, can you come and disinfect? And could you bring 2 more people to take care of high-touch services." So that's one way. And then the other way is what we call the branded EnhancedClean, where a client will come to us and say, "Listen, I want to talk about a longer-term program over the next 3, 6, 9 months. So can we just make sure, like every night, you come and you disinfect. We have 4 people permanently," right? So work orders are short term in nature and EnhancedClean is longer term. We're seeing similar margins in both. And they're not competitive, right? And taking a work -- a client that's on a work order and moving them to EnhancedClean, if we don't do that, it's really not a fail. It's really dictated by the client themselves because you may be a client that's saying, "Listen, I can't really judge yet the occupancy cadence of my team. I'm not sure how many people are coming back, when they're coming back. I don't want to commit to a longer-term spec right now." It could be a client that's saying, "The pandemic has shifted our business. We're having our own financial issues right now. So I don't want to commit to the longer term. So let's just do this on a short-term basis." So they're not competitive projects. And we like EnhancedClean better because we always like -- like any business, you want to lock into a longer-term contract. But in our mind, a work order is not a fail. It's just a reflection of a client's own situation. And if you think about what we did this year, $300 million worth of pandemic and EnhancedClean activities in such a short period of time. Because remember, COVID wasn't a full year. So I think we're super excited about that. And the $300 million that we did in sales in this area ended up being $200 million in a year on the P&L, and we expect that to more than double next year. Sean D. Eastman - KeyBanc Capital Markets Inc., Research Division - Senior Equity Research Analyst Okay. Super helpful. And then also just piggybacking on Andy's question. Just wanted to understand, as we think about -- and I don't want to steal the thunder of the Strategy Day next year, but as we think -- this digital transformation, leveraging data, is it more of a market share angle? Is it a customer stickiness angle? Or is it a margin angle? Just sort of curious how you're thinking about that payback and that benefit from these investments. Scott B. Salmirs - ABM Industries Incorporated - President, CEO & Director Sure. That's -- it'll have elements of all 3, right? But clearly, the key to our future is how do you connect better with clients? How do you give them data, dashboards, insights that is going to make them more sticky with us, right? Where they don't want to detach from us, right? But then there's a whole other element internally about how we manage our workforce. More and more, it's a mobile workforce, right? So what are the tools that we could give our team in terms of task orders every day, safety moments in the morning. How could they punch in and punch out. So the ability to -- like to enhance our workforce and create margin on labor management by being more efficient, by dealing with our workforce in real time through digital tools, it's just phenomenal. And you'll find that there are a lot of service companies, especially with the distributed workforce that are all working on these tools. So we're just trying to jump ahead of it. And I think in the short term, it's going to be about kind of stickiness with clients. It's going to be about getting a data foundation because if you don't have good data, there's no point, right? So you have to create a data framework. And then over the long term, if we can actuate and activate our distributed workforce, we expect to see margin accretion there for sure. Sean D. Eastman - KeyBanc Capital Markets Inc., Research Division - Senior Equity Research Analyst Okay. Got you. And one last one for me. I mean it is noteworthy to see you guys exiting fiscal '20 in the low 2x range from a leverage perspective. So I just have to ask how you're thinking about use of cash. Clearly, you have this digital transformation as a big priority. But it seems like you have enough dry powder to start looking at acquisitions or maybe even the buyback. So just curious how you guys are thinking about putting this huge free cash flow number in fiscal '20 to work? 10 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 17, 2020 / 1:30PM, ABM.N - Q4 2020 ABM Industries Inc Earnings Call Earl Ellis - ABM Industries Incorporated - Executive VP & CFO Yes, Sean, thanks for the question. It's Earl. I would say a couple of things. First of all, I'd love to take the opportunity to really thank the teams for the focus and efforts put forward in really managing our cash this year. It's been an amazing job in that they've actually been able to take 4 days out. So we are sitting on a fair amount of cash, and we feel really good about our liquidity. As far as our hierarchy of priorities, when looking at cash allocation, first -- we first look at really investing in our organic growth while maintaining our dividend program, and then followed by that, looking at opportunities with respect to both M&A and share buybacks. So this strategy, we do not see this changing at this point in time. However, in light of the uncertainty with regards to our current environment, we are going to be very prudent and cautious with regards to making cash choices. Operator Our next question is from Tim Mulrooney with William Blair. Timothy Michael Mulrooney - William Blair & Company L.L.C., Research Division - Group Head of Global Services & Analyst Earl, congrats on the new gig. Earl Ellis - ABM Industries Incorporated - Executive VP & CFO Thanks very much. Appreciate it. Timothy Michael Mulrooney - William Blair & Company L.L.C., Research Division - Group Head of Global Services & Analyst Yes. So I had a bunch of margin questions, but that's been beaten to death on this Q&A. So I'm just going to ask a couple on your segments. So on your T&M segment, do you think the Technology side of this business will be a headwind moving forward? I've seen quite a few articles across my desk from tech company CEOs who are planning to shift some of their workforce to a permanent work-from-home situation. Obviously, the manufacturing side should stay strong, but I'm curious how you're thinking about the tech side of the business from a 3- to 5-year perspective. Scott B. Salmirs - ABM Industries Incorporated - President, CEO & Director Yes. I'm still bullish on the tech sector. I think that's the fuel of the economy. I think that's where we're going to see growth as a country. And it's funny. You read about -- I'm reading the same things you're reading, right? When we're talking to our clients, what we keep seeing is the Googles of the world, the Amazons of the world taking more space, right? They're expanding in New York City now. They're expanding in Texas. So I think the narrative out there for them is work-from-home. But when you really drill down and you talk to employees, they quite like being back in the office. And so I think there's going to be a mix. I think you'll see possibly less people in the office. But I think those companies are in such growth trajectories, Tim, that I think -- I'm just bullish on that sector. And we've talked about this before, but I just want to keep hitting home because what I'm about to say is what I've heard from the top real estate companies in the country is, even if there is this foundational shift where 25% of the people work from home, and that is a massive shift, right, for a pandemic that's only 9 months in, but even if 25% of folks start working from home, you still have to space out your existing office space because we've been jamming people in, we've been having people trading desks and cubicles. So I think you're going to see floor plate shift. And so I am as optimistic as ever in office space in general because I think people want to collaborate and work. And on the tech side, I'm super optimistic. 11 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 17, 2020 / 1:30PM, ABM.N - Q4 2020 ABM Industries Inc Earnings Call Timothy Michael Mulrooney - William Blair & Company L.L.C., Research Division - Group Head of Global Services & Analyst Okay, Scott. And then on the Technical Solutions business, which has been humming along really nicely the last several years and then obviously, decelerated materially in 2020. How does this setup look for 2021? I know school budgets across the country are tight, and you can sell them on the payback period with your solutions and indoor air qualities as a growing concern. But also schools are kind of distracted with other things right now. So just how do you think about 2021? Is it a rebuilding year for Technical Solutions? Or do you think we could have potentially another strong year like we saw in 2018 and 2019? Scott B. Salmirs - ABM Industries Incorporated - President, CEO & Director Yes. I think Technical Solutions is going to be sequentially strong, right? So I think the way you have to think about this, there's a couple of ways we look at it, right? First is our sales pipeline, right, which is really what are the qualified leads we're going after. We haven't closed them yet, the qualified leads that we're going after. Our pipeline is as big, if not bigger than ever. So that's pretty exciting for us. But then you have to look at backlog, which is the other term that we use. And backlog is committed work like signed contracts that we have that we just haven't started yet, right? And our backlog is really strong for '21. It's just -- the other term that we use is churn rate, which is how fast do you take that backlog and turn it into actual work where you really have people in the field installing the equipment, right, changing out the lighting. And that's what's been the inhibitor. We're probably maybe 50% down in terms of churn rate recently just because they haven't had access to the facilities, right, because of COVID. So we'd love to see the churn rate higher, it would be great, right, because that's really -- that's in-year revenue. But as long as you have that strong backlog, you have the committed work and that is really strong. And we think now with the vaccine and with the economy getting some momentum, I think our churn rates are going to start picking up. And I think this is going to be a big back half of the year story, which, Tim, the back half is always the big time for ATS, right, because generally speaking, we do so much in school. So that's the time when schools are closed, and we have ultimate access. I think that's going to happen again. And the last thing I'll say, which is pretty obvious, the tailwinds in this business are just so strong with energy, sustainability, all the green that's happening in society. And then you take that, coupled with what you mentioned, educational facilities being so strapped for cash, and this is a clear path to freeing up energy efficiency, I'm still all in on Technical Solutions. Timothy Michael Mulrooney - William Blair & Company L.L.C., Research Division - Group Head of Global Services & Analyst No, that's great color, Scott. I mean backlog very strong, churn rate improving. That's very helpful. Operator Our next question is from Marc Riddick with Sidoti & Company. Marc Frye Riddick - Sidoti & Company, LLC - Business and Consumer Services Analyst Earl, welcome to ABM. I'm looking forward to working with you going forward. I wanted to just touch -- a lot of -- first of all, thank you for being as thorough as you've been on your commentary. So a lot of my questions have already been answered, but I wanted to touch a little bit on future pricing dynamic and how we should think about how that's evolved, particularly with EnhancedClean. And I was wondering if you could touch a little bit maybe on the parts of the program that are gaining the greatest level of client receptivity even if it's not necessarily what they did during the fourth quarter, what they're doing right now. Scott, if you can talk a little bit about what's the part that they like the most. And maybe if you could talk about maybe what that -- how that pricing structure has evolved so far, and how it may evolve going forward. 12 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 17, 2020 / 1:30PM, ABM.N - Q4 2020 ABM Industries Inc Earnings Call Scott B. Salmirs - ABM Industries Incorporated - President, CEO & Director Sure. So I think what they like, particularly about ABM, it's the thoroughness of our program. Because there's a lot of janitorial companies that are coming in and say, "We can disinfect. We could do electrostatic spraying." And certainly, we can do that, but we haven't taken that approach. We basically said, no, no, no. We are different than everyone else. We have an expert advisory panel with people from the outside, from medical schools, from famed educational institutions that formed up this advisory panel with our own folks in the health care business because you know we have a health care business. So they like the fact that they get this extra piece of advice outside of just looking at the World Health Organization or the CDC. Then we're doing extra training of our people, and we have signage in place, right? We're doing evidence-based testing after we're done. And the way you think about it, you're literally going to -- if you have our EnhancedClean program for your facility, you literally get the proverbial sticker in the window that says, "This facility is EnhancedClean certified." And when people come back to work, what you have to establish with your facility manager is trust and safety. People have to feel good about where they're going to, for their own health and for their family's health, right? So when you're dealing with a company like an ABM, a big public company that has these resources, we've really started differentiating ourselves. And you know what, Marc, because of all the things I just said, we are getting a premium on pricing because it's not purely labor-based function. This is more of an upskilled function because of the training, because of the equipment that we use and the chemicals we're using, so we're seeing elevated pricing. And that's not going to change only because of what we're doing and everything that has to go into it. So we're enthusiastic about that. And we haven't had a pushback yet. Now, go in the future if clients are strained and they're looking for savings, my sense is, and I bet you'll agree with me, where they're not going to cut back is in disinfecting. I don't think any facility management or landlord wants to say, "We're going into tough times, so we're not going to be disinfecting." So we feel like we have some resilience in that product line. So the arrows are pointing up in this area for us. Marc Frye Riddick - Sidoti & Company, LLC - Business and Consumer Services Analyst And then I'm glad you mentioned that because that was one of the things I was sort of kind of wrestling with is if you look at the videos and things that you have on this side. I was wondering if you could talk a little bit more about that visibility to the end user and how that kind of -- how you're seeing that evolving? Because basically, to put it in a different way, at least the way I'm looking at it, it's almost like a -- A, it's branding extension; B, it's kind of like a good housekeeping seal of approval that is going to now be in people's visuals going forward. So I was wondering if you could talk a little bit about that because that basically to me seems like something that's going to expand your brand going forward for years to come. Is that a reasonable way of looking at this? Scott B. Salmirs - ABM Industries Incorporated - President, CEO & Director Yes, it is. I'm so glad you brought that up because this is the first time in ABM's history that we productized a service, right? EnhancedClean, registered trademark. It's our product, if you will, for a service company. And we've done a ton of social media outreach, we've been branding at Safety Seen and there's been ad campaigns on the web. We have -- we're going to be rolling out in calendar year '21, a very aggressive campaign. And we've talked about the investments, and that was brought up earlier by Andy. And we've been so focused on the IT side, but we're going to be investing in EnhancedClean, too. That's part of our investments. We're going to take this and run with it. Awareness is heightened. And it's such an amazing opportunity for a company like ABM and the resources we have to differentiate ourselves between our competitors, which largely speaking, are smaller regional companies that just don't have the ability to put together an expert advisory council or to do the kind of social media outreach that we're doing and the branding and the advertising. So there's a lot more to come and really excited to follow up with you. Remember this question because we'll be talking about it on the next quarterly call. 13 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 17, 2020 / 1:30PM, ABM.N - Q4 2020 ABM Industries Inc Earnings Call Operator Our next question is from Tate Sullivan with Maxim Group. Tate H. Sullivan - Maxim Group LLC, Research Division - Senior VP & Senior Industrials Analyst Welcome, Earl. And just follow-up questions, mostly. Scott, on Technical Services, and thanks for all the detail on there. And I understand the theme park related project, it sounds like that's a small end market in Technical Solutions for you. But can you remind us is most of your other work in the backlog for Technical Solutions, Education? Or can you provide more context on that market exposure for your backlog? Scott B. Salmirs - ABM Industries Incorporated - President, CEO & Director Yes, that is -- Yes. Yes. We really have 2 foundational areas of Technical Solutions, the education space, which is the large majority. And then we do a lot of government work, whether it's mission-critical work. We have special clearances that we do for the government. And just in general, government buildings, it's a sector that we've been growing in. So yes, the theme park one was a little out of what we normally do. But in terms of from a safety and security standpoint, you should be thinking of that backlog as education and government facilities. Tate H. Sullivan - Maxim Group LLC, Research Division - Senior VP & Senior Industrials Analyst And has the bidding activity for Technical Solutions just shut down? Or are there still opportunities out there recently in Technical Solutions? Scott B. Salmirs - ABM Industries Incorporated - President, CEO & Director Yes. No, it's actually going the other way. It's spiking up right now. We're seeing more activity. And I would also remind you, from a salesperson standpoint, we cut back on salespeople in 2020, from a prudent standpoint, right? We furloughed people, we reduced hours. All the things you would do in -- I'd say it half kidding, but the liquidity playbook, right? So now we're getting back on the track of hiring salespeople. We historically, over the last couple of years, have targeted net increases of 10% in salespeople. And if you remember -- and the majority of those are technical solutions people. And what we would typically say is we're going to hire 20%, but 10% would fall out of the bottom just because we keep raising the bar. This year, our aspiration is to grow by 20%. So we're going to be very aggressive about bringing people and really strong people that understand technical solutions because, again, the opportunities are so strong, especially on the education side, where every single community has cut their education budget and are cutting teachers and after-school programs. And we have the answer. We have the answer in our Technical Solutions segment. So super optimistic. Tate H. Sullivan - Maxim Group LLC, Research Division - Senior VP & Senior Industrials Analyst Great. And tailing on that, just the last one for me. I mean how receptive are your clients today in the current environment to hearing about your integrated solution? I mean I'm talking about combining the other facility services into contracts in addition to janitorial services. Can you comment just on that kind of -- those kind of conversations you're having, please? Scott B. Salmirs - ABM Industries Incorporated - President, CEO & Director I think more of the conversations are cross-selling within our industry groups. So it's less about, I want to hear more about how parking and janitorial are integrated, it's more about if you think about our Education segment, our proper Education segment, where we're starting to see traction. If we get a janitorial bid for -- in our Education segment, we'll come back and we'll respond to that bid, but we'll also say, "Hey, here's alternative B. We can also look at a bundled energy solution offering that could lower your cost on your facility. So if you hire ABM for your janitorial, we could 14 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 17, 2020 / 1:30PM, ABM.N - Q4 2020 ABM Industries Inc Earnings Call really come up with a solution that could really offset some of those janitorial costs." So there's been a lot of reception from clients in our Education segment to hearing about how we can enhance a basic janitorial RFP. That's really encouraging for us. Operator We have time for one final question from David Silver with CL King. David Cyrus Silver - CL King & Associates, Inc., Research Division - Senior VP & Senior Analyst Scott, I wanted to follow up on your comment in your prepared remarks about shifting from defense to offense. And in particular, I was -- I'm just wondering about the client, their customer choices that you might be making. In other words, Scott, I think historically for you, the right customer retention rate was 100%, if not more. And I'm just wondering, but obviously, the business environment has changed a lot. You've come out with a differentiated offering. You're investing in training and other kind of upgrading of the workforce. So is this the type of environment where over time, you might be trying to target a particular more suitable or more ideal customer demographic, ones that are willing to pay the higher prices for the upgraded services that you're investing in? And maybe going back a couple of years ago, I mean you've talked about culling your contract portfolio of kind of lower margin or less attractive forms of business. And I'm just wondering, again, that was more defensive, but maybe now, do you target certain customer groups that maybe are not fully represented in but the ones that represent the most ideal fit with the way your service offering is evolving? Scott B. Salmirs - ABM Industries Incorporated - President, CEO & Director Yes. No, that's a good question. There's a lot there to unpack. But what I would say is that our sales group is really focused on that. We have an area called sales effectiveness, which are just basically data analysts that look at all these segments and figure out where we want to play, right, which is super important. You may have seen or we've talked about in the past, how we've started gravitating towards retail distribution, like kind of the Amazons and the Walmarts of the world, people that -- because that's a really strong growing segment. And we've been doing really well there, and we see that as opportunity in the future. And historically, our retention rate, last year, you may remember, it was about 90%. This year, we're 92% to 93%, which is a really good trend in kind of where we're looking to go in the future. So I think this is something that we'll always be focused on. And when I talked about going from defense to offense, that was really more in terms of investing into the business and making these investments. I have to tell you, there's so much data out there from past recessions, past -- bumps in the road like we're seeing here with the pandemic. There's so much data out there about companies who, at this time, kind of hunkered down and go on the defensive versus companies that take the opportunity to go on the offensive. And it's extraordinary in terms of the long-term profitability and success of companies to take this opportunity to go on the offense, and that's exactly what we're doing by investing in. Again, cautiously investing in, but that's where that comment came from, which is we're not hunkering down, we're not going into a shell. We're doing really well. We're liquid. We're having record profitability, record growth. So it's really a sentiment that you look at ABM and you look at a company that's excited about the future and excited to have the ability to go on offense. Operator We have reached the end of our question-and-answer session. I would like to turn it back over to management for closing remarks. 15 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 17, 2020 / 1:30PM, ABM.N - Q4 2020 ABM Industries Inc Earnings Call Scott B. Salmirs - ABM Industries Incorporated - President, CEO & Director Yes. Well, thanks, everyone, for coming on today's call. And I'll just make it brief, I think. You've heard the sentiment here. We're super excited about where ABM is going. I think '21 is going to be a great year for us. There's still a lot of uncertainty, but we're going to navigate it as adeptly as we did in 2020. And just we're going to be continuing to build the muscle strength. But the most important thing I could say at this time is just have an amazing holiday, everybody. And more importantly, don't let your guard down. Stay safe, and let's look forward to '21 and an effective vaccine, and we all get back to normal. So thanks, everybody. Operator Thank you. This does conclude today's conference. You may disconnect your lines at this time, and thank you for your participation. DISCLAIMER Refinitiv reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes. In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized. THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES REFINITIV OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS. 2020, Refinitiv. All Rights Reserved. 13537759-2020-12-18T00:57:59.670 16 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 17, 2020 / 1:30PM, ABM.N - Q4 2020 ABM Industries Inc Earnings Call
REFINITIV STREETEVENTS EDITED TRANSCRIPT MDB.OQ - MongoDB Inc at UBS Global TMT Conference (Virtual) EVENT DATE/TIME: DECEMBER 09, 2020 / 3:15PM GMT REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS Michael Lawrence Gordon MongoDB, Inc. - COO & CFO Serge Tanjga MongoDB, Inc. - VP of Finance and Business Operations CONFERENCE CALL PARTICIPANTS Karl Emil Keirstead UBS Investment Bank, Research Division - Analyst PRESENTATION Karl Emil Keirstead - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division - Analyst I just lost the image of Michael and Serge, but I trust you can still hear me? Michael Lawrence Gordon - MongoDB, Inc. - COO & CFO We can. Yes. Karl Emil Keirstead - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division - Analyst Okay. Great. So Michael, congrats on the numbers last night. Maybe it makes sense just for those that didn't have a chance to catch you live last evening to give you a moment to put the quarter in context, and maybe it would be useful to address some of the more frequent questions you got on calls with sell-side analysts and investors last night and this morning. So why don't I turn it over to you for a moment? Michael Lawrence Gordon - MongoDB, Inc. - COO & CFO Sure. Yes, happy to. And great to see you and great to be here and thanks for hosting us. Yes, so for those who don't know, we reported last night. Our third quarter, it was another strong quarter. Revenue growth was 38% year-over-year. Subscription revenue growth was 39% year-over-year. We significantly increased our outlook for Q4, I think, reflecting the strong execution and our confidence in the business, despite the macroeconomic challenges, which we can certainly talk more about. COVID is certainly having an impact, a negative impact on the business in the short term. So we said we would have done even better, had it not been for COVID. That said, I think, COVID is highlighting or kind of underscoring a number of the tailwinds that will be additive to the business for the long term. We've had another record quarter of strong customer additions. I think it sort of underscores the fact that we were going after an incredibly large market. We're early on in the adoption curve, and we continue to refine and adjust to go-to-market motion, and it's having sort of the desired outcome and impacts. Lastly, I'd touch on Atlas, which is our database-as-a-service offering, in particular, continues to drive growth. It now represents 47% of revenue, so closing in on half of the revenue stream and is growing at 61%. So I think those are probably like the key highlights. Serge, I don't know if there's anything else you want to add or any kind of key questions or comments that came up or address. I think, in general, the feedback was pretty consistent. We heard words like spotless, flawless, very solid, strong quarter. So there were not a lot of question marks that we had in our conversations. 2 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 09, 2020 / 3:15PM, MDB.OQ - MongoDB Inc at UBS Global TMT Conference (Virtual) Karl Emil Keirstead - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division - Analyst Okay. Anything you want to add, Serge? Serge Tanjga - MongoDB, Inc. - VP of Finance and Business Operations No. I feel like Michael covered the basics. The questions that we've been seeing so far, usually just trying to better understand the COVID impact, and I'm sure we'll get to that as well. Understanding sort of the drivers of enablers of the customer acquisition is sort of the acceleration that we've seen now for a couple of quarters. And then more broadly, just questions in terms of what we're hearing from customers and they're both short-term and long-term feedback in terms of their IT road maps. QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS Karl Emil Keirstead - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division - Analyst Okay. Well, maybe we'll hit a few of those, just to get them out there. So maybe Michael and Serge will start with the broader economic demand backdrop that you described last night. I think on your 2Q call, you mentioned that there was some improvement in the macro. I'm sure there was again this quarter. But you did highlight obviously that COVID still represents a negative. So maybe you could unpack exactly how that manifested itself? Was it distressed industries being little bit lighter? Was it longer sales cycles? Maybe you could describe what the nature of that COVID impact still is in this past quarter and as we look into 4Q? Michael Lawrence Gordon - MongoDB, Inc. - COO & CFO Yes. Absolutely. And we've tried from the beginning to be clear and transparent about our thought process, recognizing it's a highly fluid environment and forecasting in this environment is more challenging than normal. But we've tried to just be kind of clear about our underlying assumptions. I think there's sort of a couple of different things, and there's a risk of confusing them. And I think it's sort of important to make sure people understand that they're separate. There is the macroeconomic backdrop, and that really has a couple of different ways that impacts, business in general, but our business in particular. The first is when you think about new business, right, and what is people's appetite to do new business. We had included in our forecast, even starting when we first had to incorporate it in March with our fiscal '21 outlook, assuming that the corresponding macroeconomic consequences of the global pandemic would be reduced appetite, right, reduced budgets. And I think the reality is, we have executed better and done better than we would have thought that we would, given some of the challenges. That said, we also called out specifically that we do see impacts. And what you can see in the best kind of manifestation of that in terms of new business is some deals receiving more scrutiny, right? People are a little tighter with the purse strings in this environment. Obviously, that's true in the most obvious industries. But it is more generally true, right? People as they're going through budgeting cycles, they're -- we're just seeing some anecdotes or situations where there is more scrutiny for transactions. So I think that's sort of important to keep in context. We think that will continue in Q4. Obviously, the course of the pandemic and the associated macroeconomic impacts will affect how much that impacts of our fiscal '22. But that's sort of the first piece. The second piece is a more specific and easier to observe, right, because it's sort of -- so the first piece I'm describing is a little bit harder to sort of understand. The second piece is what we've seen and what we called out, in particular, on the Q2 call, and again, on last night's call, was activity related to consumption of Atlas, right? And so what we saw is in Q1, we saw a slowdown, modest, but broad-based in Atlas consumption from customers starting in late March. So relatively coordinated with sort of the global synchronized shutdown that occurred in response to the virus. 3 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 09, 2020 / 3:15PM, MDB.OQ - MongoDB Inc at UBS Global TMT Conference (Virtual) And we disaggregated and dissected the numbers in the way that you would expect us to do. And you can see from the publicly reported numbers, it was quite a good quarter in terms of net additions, right? So wasn't any question around kind of top of funnel, if you will, or top of customers coming in. The next logical thing to think of is, well, maybe churn picked up, it would be logical in specific industries that maybe people would shut down applications or do things like that. And we didn't see any appreciable uptick in churn, actually. We really didn't see a change. And I think that underscores the mission criticality of the role that we play in the ecosystem, even if you're in tougher times, you're not going to shut down your application. What you will do in a consumption-based model is, you will consume less, right? And so we saw the net expansion rates within the Atlas customer base still grow, but not grow at quite as quicker rate as it had previously had, and that was sort of in the aggregate. So our next hypothesis or next area was, well, maybe it's industry specific, right? Maybe there are specific industry verticals that you would logically assume: travel, hospitality, whatever it might be, that we're driving into, sort of a small number of customers seeing really outsized declines. That's actually not what we saw either. And we -- what we saw, in fact, was a much more modest, but very broad-based reduction in the growth rate, really mirroring the macroeconomic impact, right? We saw macroeconomic activity slowdown, and it makes sense in a consumption model that you would actually tend to see things like mildly dampened. And that's very much what we saw. We saw that at the end of March kick-in, we then talked about on the Q2 call how that continued, and we saw that, although it had restored a little bit, but not all the way back to pre COVID levels. And what we talked about in Q3 was, we actually saw the resumption of more pre Covid levels in terms of the expansion. Karl Emil Keirstead - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division - Analyst Got it. So maybe a couple of questions there, Michael. Michael Lawrence Gordon - MongoDB, Inc. - COO & CFO Yes. Karl Emil Keirstead - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division - Analyst So your comments that there might be a little bit more budget scrutiny, budgets are tight. That sounds to me like a broader phenomenon. That doesn't strike me as MongoDB specific, obviously. Michael Lawrence Gordon - MongoDB, Inc. - COO & CFO No, no. I actually -- there's nothing company specifically. We've seen if I would say the exact opposite, all of the COVID-related stuff sort of is an accelerant or amplification of the natural course of the trends and the tailwinds that we're benefiting for, whether it's digital transformation, app modernization, cloud adoption, all of those sort of macro trends. People are more urgently trying to reassess their infrastructure and their ability to compete and their agility. And we enable all of those things. And so from a long-term perspective, I think it will pull forward what would have been some of the future opportunity. Karl Emil Keirstead - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division - Analyst Yes. And I suppose the correct analysis is, which software companies are skating through that budget pressure better than others. And I think fair to say, 38% revenue growth, 61% Atlas is illustrative of MongoDB, great -- doing a pretty good job, managing through that environment. 4 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 09, 2020 / 3:15PM, MDB.OQ - MongoDB Inc at UBS Global TMT Conference (Virtual) Michael Lawrence Gordon - MongoDB, Inc. - COO & CFO Yes. No, no. I think we feel really good about that. I think we feel really good about the execution. And I think, like I said, the long-term outlook, I think is only further improved. The last thing I will say, which we've talked about, I think in the Q2 call, it didn't really come up yesterday and last night's call. But one of the other things I think is important to understand and I don't have a good neat, pithy, catchphrase or a way to describe this, but there are some businesses that are -- react more quickly or kind of quicker twitch, if you will, to a pandemic. And I say, all of a sudden, my whole workforce is mandatorily working from home. So I need video conferencing software, I need collaboration software and I -- it's standardized across the company, and I implement it. And all of a sudden you just see it show up in the numbers. Databases are a little bit different because it's more sort of application by application. There is a gestation period. There is an application life cycle and so you can't just suddenly say, "Oh, I need to go change all my infrastructure." And then tomorrow, I've provisioned this thing, and it's up and running, kind of at full tilt. There's a little bit more sort of a buildup. And so that's for some folks who are trying to connect the dots or whatever, that's how you can say, great strong quarter execution sort of despite the headwinds, but not benefiting from it in the current quarter, right, but amplifying and setting up the long-term trends for the years to come. Karl Emil Keirstead - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division - Analyst Got it. And just to be clear on Atlas, it sounds like that 60-plus percent growth benefited from, if I'm hearing you correctly, Michael, 2 things: One is, the net customer additions were solid, and we -- I'd love to dig in a little bit as to -- Serge would enable that. And then the second thing you seem to be saying is that the usage pressure that you first saw in March alleviated somewhat versus prior quarters. Fair to say? Michael Lawrence Gordon - MongoDB, Inc. - COO & CFO Yes. No, I think that's right. I think if you think about the growth rates that the existing cohorts have had slowed a little bit, still growing and growing nicely, but slowed a little bit. And that is now back at pre COVID levels. And so I think that's also encouraging. It means just to make sure people put it in context. It means that we start Q4 with a lower recurring revenue base than we would have, had there not been the pandemic, right, because you've now even kind of went through those couple quarters where you had slower growth within a compounding business. People need to understand that, that does have an impact in terms of the starting position in Q4. But I think when you look at the actual underlying behaviors, we've seen that rebound to pre COVID levels. Karl Emil Keirstead - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division - Analyst Okay. Well, let's maybe hit on the net customer adds, because that, I think, for most people was one of the highlights from the quarter. So Michael or Serge, do you mind elaborating on what enabled that? What changes in terms of sales incentives to create that pretty strong result last night? Michael Lawrence Gordon - MongoDB, Inc. - COO & CFO Yes. So I think there are 2 key things to think about. I think the first which we've been talking about for several quarters is we -- now that we have Atlas and have Atlas available as a self-service product, we have talked for, like I said, several quarters about increasing our investment in more consumer marketing DNA, right, getting a developer to sign up. With a credit card, it's a very different process than selling UBS IT department or whatever, right? And so there's a different orientation in terms of the consumer-oriented DNA and creating that kind of top of funnel and free trial and kind of more classically oriented consumer marketing. And so we've been making really good strides in that. And you can see that manifest itself in the raw customer count. And the growth in the self-service customers and the growth in Atlas customers. By no means, when I say, we've cracked the code, we've still got work to do. 5 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 09, 2020 / 3:15PM, MDB.OQ - MongoDB Inc at UBS Global TMT Conference (Virtual) Our new Chief Marketing Officer is only recently on board. And so there's sort of more work to do there, but feel really good about the progress that we're making there. Separate from that, but also important is a change that we made on the direct sales side, which is that what we've seen was that there was this tension that was somewhat artificial that had been created between the incentives that a sales rep has versus sort of the customer mindset. What the sales rep is trying to do is, maximize the size of the commitment, right, which is, what a good sales rep should be trying to do. At the same time, the customer sitting there say, well, this is a cloud product and its consumption oriented and I haven't launched my application. So how can I commit to a number. And there was this sort of like tension in discussions. So what we did was we changed that relationship, and we said that for the sales folks, they shouldn't be focused on maximizing the initial out-of-the-box commitment. What they should be doing is [freaking] getting customers to the platform because we have the cohort data that show that when they get on the platform they expand. And so they get on the platform, they've sort of reduced that, say, look, I'm not -- I'm going to get paid for the growth over time, right? So now I can sign up for a smaller commitment, you and I don't have to fight over. Should you be spending $40,000 or $80,000 or whatever the commitment might be. And you get on the platform and let's say you commit to $40,000. I as a salesperson get paid for that $40,000. But as your consumption actually grows to $80,000, I get paid on that incremental growth as a sales rep. And so what that has done is reduce the friction in the adoption, and it dramatically has accelerated velocity, which you see in the customer counts. The last thing I'd say, which came up a little bit last night, is probably worth just quickly calling out for folks is, I think, on the Q2 call, Dev talked about sort of the increasing sophistication of the go-to-market motion. And a couple of years ago, I think we would have thought as the self-serve business or channel as sort of relatively separate and discrete from the enterprise channel. And what we're increasingly seeing is an opportunity to operate and integrate them together, whereby, the self-service customers come on board and they can now become a potential fishing pond for the sales folks, for customers who have the potential to grow differentially by having some sort of human involvement. And so unlike a classic marketing funnel campaign, where maybe you've got some good intelligence or firmographic data about a prospect. Here we have real-life usage data, right. They're using Atlas. And so we can see what their usage behaviors are. And using data science, we can say, okay, this swath of people is actually worth spending the human time on for someone to actually go out reach to them, and that will accelerate their growth, because if they're just going to grow anyway, there's no point in spending the money and having a person go talk to them, if they're going to naturally organically grow, you want to invest the dollars for the incremental growth that a human contact can drive versus stand-alone. So I know I've said a lot there, but hopefully, that's helpful. Karl Emil Keirstead - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division - Analyst That is helpful. Great. I want to ask you a little bit about the fourth quarter guidance. But before we leave the third quarter that you reported last night, Michael, I did have one question coming in from the audience that I'll read out to you. Were there any material FX impacts on the 3Q earnings worth calling out? Michael Lawrence Gordon - MongoDB, Inc. - COO & CFO I think the answer is no, Serge, you can double check me. Serge Tanjga - MongoDB, Inc. - VP of Finance and Business Operations No. 6 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 09, 2020 / 3:15PM, MDB.OQ - MongoDB Inc at UBS Global TMT Conference (Virtual) Karl Emil Keirstead - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division - Analyst Excellent. Thank you. We'll go right to my question. So on the fourth quarter, the revenue guidance of $155 million to $157 million, I think, is 26% year-over-year growth. That's obviously a [detail] what you put up. Obviously, there's, I'm sure, some element of especially in this environment, being a little bit careful with your guidance. But Michael, do you want to unpack that fourth quarter guidance. What key assumptions it embeds? Michael Lawrence Gordon - MongoDB, Inc. - COO & CFO Yes. So I'll say a few things, and obviously, Serge, feel free to jump in or we can go to follow-up questions or however you want to elaborate. But so overall, I think it's a really healthy outlook that we have for Q4. We significantly raised our guide, so despite the macroeconomic environment. I think that really reflects the confidence, our ability to consistently sort of execute, despite what is a challenging environment. That said, we talked about some deals receiving extra scrutiny. We expect that to continue. In addition, we are entering Q4 with that lower recurring revenue base that I mentioned on the Atlas customers. And so even though, we've seen a restoration of kind of the expansion levels pre COVID, just the starting number at the beginning of Q4 is lower and mathematically, that has an impact. And then lastly, I'd call out, something we called out a year ago, when we reported the quarter, Q4 of last year was a very strong enterprise advanced quarter. And enterprise advance is sort of the self-managed product. And therefore, under 606 accounting, we recognized the term license revenue associated with that once the subscription starts. And it was a very strong EA quarter. We call that one deal a year ago, just from one customer that drove an incremental $3.5 million in the quarter. And so I think you need to make sure to take that into account when you're thinking about the compare, and that's only from one customer. And as I was saying, sort of as a very strong EA quarter overall. The last thing I'd say, maybe, just without getting too much into the minutia or the weeds on 606, I think it does actually matter. I think people, simplistically, when they think about compares, can do think about that meaning, okay, I need to adjust the denominator, right, because it was sort of an outsized impact on the denominator. But the way 606 works is you also need to realize that it's actually depriving the numerator of the term license revenue from -- that would normally fall in that period. So the way 606 works is, all 3 years in the 3-year deal of the term license revenue would get recognized at the beginning. And so what you need to realize is, what that means in the numerator is, year 2 would normally have the term license component from the start of year 2 in the numerator, and we don't have that either. So it's kind of a double whammy. And so helping people -- I know people don't want to spend a lot of time on the nuances of recounting minutia, but I think when you're trying to think about compares and growth rates and things like that, it's sort of important context. Karl Emil Keirstead - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division - Analyst Excellent. Okay. That's super helpful. And I don't want to press you too much on next year's guide, because I don't think you've given it yet, but... Michael Lawrence Gordon - MongoDB, Inc. - COO & CFO We've not. And we'll look forward to the March call. But, yes. Karl Emil Keirstead - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division - Analyst Okay. Maybe one thing I'll try to sneak in, though is, Michael and Serge when you're talking to customers, what do you sense their thinking is the timing of, let's call it, loosely a post pandemic recovery? Because obviously, MongoDB would benefit. So would a lot of other technology companies when that moment hits. But it's anybody's guess as to when that will be. But just internally, at MongoDB, how are you defining that post pandemic recovery timing? Is it sort of summer of '21, what's your best guess, do you think? 7 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 09, 2020 / 3:15PM, MDB.OQ - MongoDB Inc at UBS Global TMT Conference (Virtual) Michael Lawrence Gordon - MongoDB, Inc. - COO & CFO Yes. So I think it's super fluid. And honestly, it changes week-to-week based on the prevailing news, and we see these sort of ebbs and flows. And so I think it will be sort of premature to give an outlook beyond the one that we've already given. What we have -- I do think it will continue to be a factor in Q4. And we said likely fiscal '22, how much of fiscal '22 remains to be seen based on the course of the virus and the pandemic and the vaccine uptake and all that kind of stuff. Karl Emil Keirstead - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division - Analyst One other way to get at this, not to beat a horse here is, what is MongoDB telling your internal employees in terms of when a back-to-office moment might be? That can sometimes be a loose marker for us. So what's the internal messaging inside your firm? Michael Lawrence Gordon - MongoDB, Inc. - COO & CFO Yes. So I think we, like many technology firms, are probably slightly disaggregated. It's probably not as good a proxy or a leading indicator for some of (inaudible) -- We announced in -- I'm thinking August that we were not going to require employees to come back to the office prior to July 1. So we wanted to make it obviously, employee safety is the #1 priority. And we wanted to allow people to make plans for the upcoming school year with confidence, if they were going to -- if they were in Palo Alto or San Francisco or New York or any of our other offices to make adjustments. We wanted them to be able to do that with some visibility. Early in the pandemic we had told people that they could -- option to work-from-home through the end of calendar 2020. But over the summer, right before the school year was starting, we updated that. So again, I think as -- I look forward of the timing we're back in the office. And I think that there are always the risk of sort of longer-term implications of being out alone. Obviously, we've managed through this environment incredibly well, and I'm incredibly proud of the team. And I think as a technology company, we've got a luxury of not needing to go back at the first opportunity. So I don't think it's quite a good proxy for our full-blown kind of COVID outlook. Karl Emil Keirstead - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division - Analyst Well, Michael, judging from your well decorated backdrop, I wouldn't be in a rush to get back to the office anytime soon. You look like you got a nice gig there. Michael Lawrence Gordon - MongoDB, Inc. - COO & CFO What I'd say is I'd like to be able to leave this like, 30-square-foot area. I just feel like I'm like trapped in this seat all day, but I... Karl Emil Keirstead - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division - Analyst I think everybody feels that way. Great. Well, why don't we talk about some broader questions outside the quarter. I think that was a good summary of 3Q and your outlook going forward. One of the questions I wanted to ask, Michael and Serge is, just you guys have talked about customers replatforming their legacy database infrastructures in the past. And I'm just curious, if you don't mind updating us on those efforts because on the one hand, there's a greater predilection to move to the cloud. And so some customers may be looking to accelerate those efforts. But on the other hand, sometimes in a period of stress like this, those are the kind of projects that you push because they can sometimes be complex, costly, introduce business risks. So maybe a comment really on replatforming, call it, legacy Oracle database infrastructures. How does that feel for Mongo right now? 8 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 09, 2020 / 3:15PM, MDB.OQ - MongoDB Inc at UBS Global TMT Conference (Virtual) Michael Lawrence Gordon - MongoDB, Inc. - COO & CFO Yes. So I would generally say, it continues to be strong. It continues to be an important component of the opportunity. Most of the business is new applications, as you would expect, which sort of makes sense given overall growth in the market when you sort of disaggregate overall kind of market size. There's sort of more growth in the market each year than there are platforming opportunities each year. And maybe the most simplistic way of saying that is, even though you've got a $60-plus billion market of spend which is obviously almost entirely relational. The vast majority of that doesn't do an RFP every year, right? Like there are application life cycles and so when you think about sort of the pool of dollars, they're mostly each year, it skews more towards new applications. We're obviously incredibly well positioned there. But I think we're also quite well positioned on the replatforming or the migration from legacy relational. And we continue to see that. We see very strong kind of year-over-year growth rates in the relational migrations. It tends to grow a little bit more slowly than the overall company average, mostly because Atlas tends to more being new workloads, which you'd probably expect. And I very much think that you're correct in that, the current environment is highlighting pain points for people. Pain around agility, pain around speed of innovation and things like that. And that tends to be the primary driver of why people replatform. We tend not to be the choice if someone's just looking to save cost, right, doesn't like paying the Oracle tax or is reached some like challenging point in their relationship. It tends to be more that they're not getting the application functionality. They can't get the performance, they can't innovate quickly enough, and they need the sort of speed and agility and scalability that they can get with MongoDB. And so that setup is very consistent with the conversations that we're having now. And we try in some of the customer stories or vignettes that we share to provide some insight into talking about a large European utility replatforming its billing application to MongoDB. Or we talked about a bank, a modern new bank, who's doing that in this most recent call. I think we talked about a Middle Eastern telco that replatformed off Oracle. So things like that. Karl Emil Keirstead - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division - Analyst Got it. Perfect. Okay. That's helpful. Another question I wanted to ask you and Serge is the analogy to Snowflake. That was a big event, I think, in broadly the data management software space in the last 3 months, at least for investors. They're obviously more of an analytics database vendor. You're obviously more of an operational database vendor. But both Snowflake and Atlas are both very popular cloud data management systems. And so I'm wondering, if it is stretched to draw a link between the 2 as evidence of a strong adoption curve for cloud-based data management. So I'd love to hear your perspectives on the analogy to Snowflake success versus Atlas? Michael Lawrence Gordon - MongoDB, Inc. - COO & CFO Yes. So there are certainly some similarities in the sense of where we're sort of operating in different parts of the ecosystem. But both modern alternatives who are cloud centric, but also importantly, sort of cloud provider agnostic is not a proprietary offering of one of the cloud players. And are both experiencing kind of significant uptake as sort of the modern alternative to their portion of the ecosystem. The ecosystems are pretty different. And one of the simplest or easiest way is to understand it even before getting to the technology is to think about the underlying persona. Snowflake is really serving or catering to the analyst persona. Some of those sorts of running queries and analysis on data as opposed to the developer. We're oriented around the developer and how the developer is using. 9 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 09, 2020 / 3:15PM, MDB.OQ - MongoDB Inc at UBS Global TMT Conference (Virtual) And so that's sort of why they're sort of two different components related in a broader sense. But there aren't really -- there aren't use cases that interfere or intersect with each other. We often see them and run and operate alongside them in accounts, but I'm not aware of situations where they are competing or overlapping components. They're quite complementary. The only other dynamic that I'd maybe just highlight is, there is a difference, and we've talked about this and try to educate investors because, obviously, there are 20 different database companies, and people have a lot of stocks in companies to think about. But the database market is a little bit different than a lot of other software markets, where a lot of other software markets tend to be more monolithic and standardized. So as a company, you're only running one HR system, right? The legal team is not on a different HR system than the marketing team. And within databases, because it's really more application by application, there tends to be a little more variety. And so the way that manifests itself is, the growth rates or the opportunity you could sit here and say, well, shouldn't MongoDB, given all successes be bigger than it already is. And it's partly because, UBS doesn't just decide to say, okay, student body left, every database is now MongoDB. Whereas in a video collaboration software, data warehouse, anything else, it tends to be more monolithic in their approach, and they say, okay, we're going to standardize on this and only this tool. So there's some differences between the business models and the underlying markets. But I think a number of the comparisons analogies hold. Karl Emil Keirstead - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division - Analyst Yes. Especially, I think the demand for modern next-gen cloud hosted data management solution... Michael Lawrence Gordon - MongoDB, Inc. - COO & CFO Completely. Completely. Yes, yes. Absolutely. And we see that. Karl Emil Keirstead - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division - Analyst So Michael, let's talk a little bit about what's changed in the competitive environment. As you said, what makes your market unique is the variety of alternatives that CIOs have. So just thinking out loud over the last 6 months, obviously, Oracle has made a number of changes to its own autonomous database. I know that Couchbase base is more actively talking to investors. So some of those listening might have spoken to them recently. The public cloud vendors with products like Cosmos DB and DynamoDB are always marketing those solutions. Anything stand out to you as being a bit of a shift that you would encourage investors to pay attention to? Or that might have changed your sales motion in any way? Serge Tanjga - MongoDB, Inc. - VP of Finance and Business Operations Yes. So maybe, Karl, I'll jump in and sort of tell you how we're thinking about the competitive environment and also how we think about it evolving. So we think that there are 3 very clear sets of competitors and sort of different competitive strategies that we're competing against. And we are very successful and like our chances against all three. But sort of the first one will be that bucket that we would have been sort of viewed as part of maybe 6 or 7 years ago, back when Dev started as a CEO of this "NoSQL" cohort. And that's where something like Couchbase would be in. So that cohort at the time was seen as new technology, interesting for niche use cases, not ready for prime time, not enterprise sturdy. And what we've done is sort of differentiate ourselves from that group because our underlying architecture and our technology investments allowed us to become, in fact, seen as a database they can handle a mission-critical application. 10 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 09, 2020 / 3:15PM, MDB.OQ - MongoDB Inc at UBS Global TMT Conference (Virtual) So Michael talks about European Utilities or Wall Street banks replatforming to come to our platform. That happens because of the confidence in the technology and its broad applicability. So we don't see those players in the market as much as we would have several years ago. It's a large market, and they tend to operate in a variety of pitches. So I'm sure that somewhere they're getting business, but we're not running to them, anywhere nearly as much as we used to. So that's bucket number one. Bucket number two is what we call the legacy relational player, so the Oracles of the World. And the reality is that we just don't see having developer mindset. So if you're a developer and you want a code, the likelihood of Oracle being your first or third choice is relatively low. And then on top of that, you have this legacy, which you written about, the -- of sort of building adversarial relationships between companies like that and sort of the IT decision-makers in terms of pricing and so forth. It doesn't help either. So we don't see them as a competitor and to the extent that we see them, it's usually when the customer back to prior conversation has reached the point of pain, where they're ready to leave. And now it's time to pick a modern alternative. The third bucket is the cloud guys. So you -- the mega cloud winders, so AWS, Azure and GCP. We see them as being very competitive. And but fundamentally, we see the market differently than they do. So they are offering database for every purpose. So whatever you want, we have in store. And we think that's fundamentally different from what customers are telling us how they want their data environment to be ordered. Because they want simplicity, they want fewer platforms that they can handle more workloads to basically lower the tax on both the developer and sort of the environment that needs to operate the app in order to innovate faster. So it's a sort of fundamentally different view. And then the other way we're different is, they mostly sell relation. Yes, they have NoSQL offerings, and we hear a lot about those, especially those that are sort of imitations targeting that MongoDB without much success, if I may add. But their main plays lift and shift. So you're leaving Oracle, you're going to the cloud, AWS or Azure, let me take that and put it on post guys. And so it has the benefit of seeing -- first of all, you get rid of the Oracle tax, you save money. But then secondly, you still have a replatform to a modern platform. You have 21st century Infrastructure-as-a-Service, but you're still running your data layer in the last century's technology. And our the problem is the wrong word, but sort of our greatest desire is to be in more of those lift and shift conversations because when we're in there, we have a compelling argument for the customer to not just lift and shift from relational long prem to relational to the cloud, but instead go full on and modernize, take the incremental effort that requires because there is one, but then you actually have a sort of not to sound to clich, but future-proof for your data layer. So that's like the competitive angle that we're mostly focused on and one that we're investing against. And frankly, when it comes down to, isn't even technology, it's awareness and its reach. Karl Emil Keirstead - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division - Analyst Got it. Excellent. We've just got maybe 2 more minutes, so I'd love to just ask you about the product set. MongoDB is always very innovative. You've always got new features coming out. Is there anything that you would flag for investors as potentially being a needle mover either in fiscal '22 or fiscal '23 that the 2 of you are particularly excited about as maybe given you a little extra tailwind? Serge Tanjga - MongoDB, Inc. - VP of Finance and Business Operations I'll start and then feel free to jump in. So the underlying principle of how we develop product has basically 2 components: One is, back to prior conversations, we're targeting the developer. So whatever -- we think through the world through the eyes of the developer and then secondly, specifically, we want to solve data related problems, for the developer. Those historically, were just in the database, but now we're expanding to what we're calling our version of the data platform, to solve data problems for the developer, wherever they happen to be. So we have a mobile database realm, which we acquired and are now integrating. We have our Atlas Data Lake product that addresses data outside of the operational database. And so we're seeing traction in those products. Where -- we have -- they're early days. They've all (inaudible) this year. So we will see continued investment and sort of continued adoption. But just to be clear, the way that we expect that to play out is really through 11 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 09, 2020 / 3:15PM, MDB.OQ - MongoDB Inc at UBS Global TMT Conference (Virtual) helping out [plus] adoption. So it's an enormous market. We're In the early innings of move to the cloud, like we've been discussing today. And so what we just want to make sure is that we get in that sort of historical jump ball as the market moves from on-prem to the cloud as much of the share as we can and have as many sort of incremental reasons for the developer to use our platform and that sort of sits behind our product development strategy. Karl Emil Keirstead - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division - Analyst That makes sense. Anything you want to add, Michael? Michael Lawrence Gordon - MongoDB, Inc. - COO & CFO No, I was going to say, I think the key thing is, there's a lot to be excited about, but I wouldn't expect sort of lots of incremental line items of specific things to call out, but really more under the apples umbrella is the key thing. Karl Emil Keirstead - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division - Analyst Got it. Well, why don't we end there. Michael and Serge, thanks for contributing to making the UBS Tech Conference, a great one this year by doing this fireside and helping our clients understand the story better in one-on-one meetings you've got today. So thank you both. And if we don't catch up, have a wonderful holiday in a few weeks. Serge Tanjga - MongoDB, Inc. - VP of Finance and Business Operations Thanks. Michael Lawrence Gordon - MongoDB, Inc. - COO & CFO Thank you, Karl. Thanks for having us. Karl Emil Keirstead - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division - Analyst Yes, you bet. DISCLAIMER Refinitiv reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes. In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized. THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES REFINITIV OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS. 2020, Refinitiv. All Rights Reserved. 13537760-2020-12-14T05:12:30 12 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 09, 2020 / 3:15PM, MDB.OQ - MongoDB Inc at UBS Global TMT Conference (Virtual)
REFINITIV STREETEVENTS EDITED TRANSCRIPT COST.OQ - November 2020 Costco Wholesale Corp Corporate Sales Call (Prerecorded) EVENT DATE/TIME: DECEMBER 02, 2020 / NTS GMT REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS David Sherwood Costco Wholesale Corporation - Assistant VP of Financial Planning & IR PRESENTATION David Sherwood - Costco Wholesale Corporation - Assistant VP of Financial Planning & IR Hello, and thank you for calling Costco Wholesale Corporation. I'm David Sherwood, AVP of Finance and Investor Relations, and I will review our sales results for the 4-week retail month of November, which started on Monday, November 2; and ended on Sunday, November 29. This period is compared to the 4 weeks that began on Monday, November 4; and ended on Sunday, December 1, 2019. This call will include forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause actual events, results and/or performance to differ materially from those indicated by such statements. The risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, those outlined in today's call and sales release as well as other risks identified from time to time in the company's public statements and reports filed with the SEC. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, and the company does not undertake to update them, except as required by law. As reported in our release, net sales for the 4-week month of November came in at $15.67 billion, an increase of 15.1% from $13.62 billion last year. Comparable sales were as follows: on a reported basis, in the U.S., the 4 weeks is at 12.0%; for 12 weeks, 14.6%; 13 weeks, 13.4%. In Canada, the 4 weeks was at 16.4%; 12 weeks was at 16.2%; and the 13 weeks was at 16.0%. Other international, the 4 weeks was at 18.2%; 12 weeks was at 18.7%; and the 13 weeks was at 18.7%. Total company, the 4 weeks is at 13.4%; 12 weeks is at 15.4%; and 13 weeks, 14.5%. E-commerce for the 4 weeks, 71.3%; for the 12 weeks, 86.4%; and the 13 weeks, 82.0%. Comparable sales, excluding the impacts from changes in gasoline prices and foreign exchange were as follows: in the U.S., the 4 weeks is at 14.2%; 12 weeks, 17.0%; and 13 weeks, 15.7%. In Canada, the 4 weeks was at 15.8%; the 12 weeks was at 16.8%; and the 13 weeks was at 16.4%. Other international, 4 weeks was at 16.0%; 12 weeks was at 17.7% and the 13 weeks was at 17.5%. Total company, the 4 weeks was at 14.6%; and 12 weeks was at 17.1% and the 13 weeks was at 16.0%. E-commerce for the 4 weeks was at 70.9%; the 12 weeks was at 86.2%; and the 13 weeks was at 81.7%. Our comp traffic or frequency for November was up 5.7% worldwide and 8.4% in the U.S. Worldwide, the average transaction was up 7.2%, which included a net negative impact of 125 basis points from gasoline deflation and FX. Foreign currencies year-over-year relative to the U.S. dollar impacted November comp sales as follows: Canada positively by approximately 160 basis points; other international positively by approximately 310 basis points and total company positively by approximately 60 basis points. Gasoline price deflation negatively impacted total reported comp sales by approximately 185 basis points. The average selling price was 21% lower year-over-year at $2.29 per gallon this year compared to $2.89 last year. Total gallons sold also continue to be lower year-over-year. In terms of regional and merchandising categories that general highlights were as follows: U.S. regions with the strongest results were Southeast, Northeast and Texas. Other international and local currencies, we saw the strongest results in Japan, U.K. and Korea. Moving to merchandise highlights. The following comparable sales results by category for the month exclude the impact of foreign exchange. Food and sundries were positive low 20s. Departments with the strongest results were sundries, frozen foods and cooler. Fresh foods were up mid-20s. Better-performing departments included meat and produce. Hardlines were positive mid-teens, better-performing departments included sporting goods, office supplies and hardware. Softlines were positive mid-teens. Home furnishings, jewelry and small appliances were strong in the month. Ancillary business sales were down mid-teens, primarily due to lower sales in gasoline and food court. Optical was flat and hearing aids were down slightly. 2 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 02, 2020 / NTS, COST.OQ - November 2020 Costco Wholesale Corp Corporate Sales Call (Prerecorded) Looking ahead, the December reporting period will include the 5 weeks beginning November 30 and ending January 3 compared to the 5 weeks beginning December 2 and ending January 5, 2020. December sales will be announced Wednesday, January 6 at 1:15 p.m. Pacific Time. We will release our Q1 FY '21 earnings on December 10. Earnings will be announced after market close with a conference call to follow at 2:00 p.m. Pacific Time. The call can be streamed live via our Investor Relations website. If you have any questions regarding our November sales results or any other Investor Relations questions, please call Bob Nelson at (425) 313-8255. And Josh Dahmen at (425) 313-8254 or myself, David Sherwood at (425) 313-8239. This recording will be available until 5:00 p.m. Pacific Time, Wednesday, December 9. Thanks for calling Costco, and have a great day. DISCLAIMER Refinitiv reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes. In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized. THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES REFINITIV OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS. 2020, Refinitiv. All Rights Reserved. 13537761-2020-12-03T03:17:32.553 3 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 02, 2020 / NTS, COST.OQ - November 2020 Costco Wholesale Corp Corporate Sales Call (Prerecorded)
REFINITIV STREETEVENTS EDITED TRANSCRIPT MDB.OQ - MongoDB Inc at Barclays Global Technology, Media and Telecommunications Conference (Virtual) EVENT DATE/TIME: DECEMBER 10, 2020 / 2:30PM GMT REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS Michael Lawrence Gordon MongoDB, Inc. - COO & CFO Serge Tanjga MongoDB, Inc. - VP of Finance and Business Operations CONFERENCE CALL PARTICIPANTS Raimo Lenschow Barclays Bank PLC, Research Division - MD & Analyst PRESENTATION Raimo Lenschow - Barclays Bank PLC, Research Division - MD & Analyst Hey, good morning. Welcome to our next session. I'm really happy to hear -- to have Michael Gordon and Serge Tanjga over here from Mongo. Maybe we start off to get everyone on the same picture. Mike, you had like really good Q3 numbers this week. Just maybe give us a couple of the highlights for you, and then we kind of go into kind of more deeper Q&A. Michael Lawrence Gordon - MongoDB, Inc. - COO & CFO Yes. Great. No, thanks for having us. Good to see you, Raimo. Thanks, everyone, for joining. Yes, we reported a couple of nights ago, I guess Tuesday night, our third quarter results, very strong results. Revenue was up 38% year-over-year. Subscription revenue was up 39% year-over-year. Atlas, which is our database as a service offering, was up 61% year-over-year. It is now 47% of revenue, so closing in on half of the revenue. And it was another great quarter in terms of customer additions, with customers topping 22,600. And we talked about how we executed really well in the quarter sort of despite COVID and the macroeconomic environment that was challenging. We did also call out that the COVID impact was less than we had expected. So we sort of outperformed relative to our expectations but, nevertheless, does remain a headwind, and we think it will, at least into Q4. We talked about, I think, the evidence of the new customer additions and the continued strength there, sort of just reinforces the fact that this is a very large market. We're very early on in penetrating it. And also, we've been making some sort of investments on both the self-serve side to kind of introduce some of that consumer DNA as well as some changes in kind of tinkering that we do and optimizations on the go-to-market side that are having the desired effects. And I think fundamentally, all that's led us to -- despite the environment that we're in to meaningfully raise our outlook for the rest of the year. And if I think on a more macro and longer-term basis, I think a lot of the trends that we're sort of naturally benefiting from, whether that be digital transformation, modernization, cloud adoption and migration, all those things are only being accelerated and enhanced. And so while there's clearly a short-term headwind from COVID in the macroeconomic backdrop that we've been managing through nicely, I think it turns into secular tailwinds when you look out over a multiyear horizon. So that's probably the sort of key headlines or highlights. QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS Raimo Lenschow - Barclays Bank PLC, Research Division - MD & Analyst Yes. They elevate your (inaudible). The -- just -- you start -- talked a little bit about the environment, like can I -- maybe like if we drill a little bit deeper there, like what are you seeing in terms of like, from a geography perspective, but also from certain industries? 2 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 10, 2020 / 2:30PM, MDB.OQ - MongoDB Inc at Barclays Global Technology, Media and Telecommunications Conference (Virtual) Michael Lawrence Gordon - MongoDB, Inc. - COO & CFO Yes. You'll see a wide range. Certainly, Asia Pacific and other areas are functioning much more closer to normal. But a lot of it really at this point is less sort of virus-related specifically in terms of not being able to visit a customer or other things because just like your conferences in these meetings, people have really adapted to that. It's gone on long enough that you sort of had to do that. It really is much more about the macroeconomic uncertainty and whether that's a specific business impact, you're in hospitality or travel, where you might be under pressure or more just you're trying to figure out and trying to plan. And so I think what we've seen is we've seen great resilience in the business and incredible strength and outperformance relative to our expectations, as you can see in the results. And then even as coming in some of those challenged sectors, I think we talked about in the -- can't remember if it was the Q1 or Q2 call in March or in June, but we even talked about one of the largest airlines making a meaningful investment. You'd think they'd be among the last people to do that in this first half of the year. So I think the value proposition of MongoDB continues to resonate and, in some cases, is even more relevant, right? When you think about some of those trends that we were discovering. I think the macro uncertainty, though, is what we have seen and we expect to see in some select deals, we'll make people provide a little bit more scrutiny, right? If you're thinking about doing a big large deal or a big multiyear deal is not everyone is open with the purse strings and those kinds of things received more scrutiny in some situations. So I think it's really more that context than anything. But I think the fundamentals are strong. We've been executing well in a difficult environment. And I think the long-term trends are all actually quite sort of reinforcing or helpful to us. Raimo Lenschow - Barclays Bank PLC, Research Division - MD & Analyst Yes. And I mean full disclosure, Michael, when the -- when March, April hit and everyone was like COVID winners and losers, I mean, I was a little bit nervous for you guys because you're selling a proper operational database. You're not like having some little toy, like Mongo is like used like properly. And then I was sitting there going like, okay, well, in this sort of environment, like a database sits on an even application, so who are starting new projects? But since then, I've been proven pretty wrong because you've been kind of delivering numbers kind of very, very healthily. Was I totally wrong on the track? Or what -- how would you describe what are you seeing out there? Michael Lawrence Gordon - MongoDB, Inc. - COO & CFO Yes. So what I'd see is -- I think what you're highlighting is the fact that we do occupy this quite sort of strategic mission-critical position within the technology stack, right? If you think about an application, the heart of that application is the database, right? And so even if the -- even if you're seeing less usage, right, or less activity, you're not actually going to churn it off. And we talked about this in some of our earlier calls, where in the first half of the year, we actually saw some impact on the Atlas expansion rates from existing customers, within existing customers because of the macroeconomic environment. And our original thought was, oh, maybe people are churning off, and is that an issue because the ads were strong, and you could see the ads were strong publicly available data. And we looked at it and said, no, there's been no change, no uptick in attrition, which sort of underscores that sort of mission criticality of the role that we provide. And it was really just more -- when there's less usage, especially on Atlas, which is database as a service, in a consumption-based model, when there's less macroeconomic activity, there's going to be less consumption, right? And it'll all kind of actually make sense. And to your earlier point, though, we had thought that maybe it was industry skewed, right? Maybe it was a small number of applications in the, obviously, affected industries that were off massively. But really, it wasn't that. It was sort of very broad-based, but very modest across the portfolio, across industries and geographies. 3 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 10, 2020 / 2:30PM, MDB.OQ - MongoDB Inc at Barclays Global Technology, Media and Telecommunications Conference (Virtual) So I think that we do occupy a very important and strategic position. People are building new applications. I think the thing that maybe not everyone fully understands is -- and I haven't come up with some good quick pithy sound bite, which you have to work on or maybe someone can help me with. But the best thing I've come up with is it's not -- our business is not as quite as quick twitch, right? Like -- so in the sense of when there's a -- everyone sort of mandatorily working from home in March, everyone needed video conferencing software, right? So obviously, Zoom's business took off. Or you need a collaboration software, right? So people are using Slack or Teams or whatever they're using. When you say, "Oh, my goodness, our application infrastructure is antiquated. We need to modernize, right, which of all these trends that we benefit from", you can't suddenly just flip a switch and turn that on, right? Like you say, we really need to take this app modernization stuff seriously. We really need to think about our ability to allow people to work from home or resiliency and redundancy, really need to increase our cloud adoption, those take time, right? So there's sort of an application life cycle. So that's part of the reason why you don't see that -- the tailwind that we benefit from sort of show up immediately in the first couple of quarters after the situation. But I think in terms of the long-term setup, I feel really good about how our position. Raimo Lenschow - Barclays Bank PLC, Research Division - MD & Analyst Yes. No, that's what I thought as well. Yes. And then feeding into -- or leading into that as well, like what do you see if you look at your -- the deals out of the pipeline that are getting executed on in terms of competition? And I'm just kind of saying, look, I'm deep in the data space. We're seeing less of like private companies like DataStax, et cetera, they have like their own problems. But I'm also seeing like AWS had that conference or started last week, it's slightly less on kind of DocumentDB, et cetera. It almost feels like you kind of won that mindshare battle. Like is that -- do you see that -- is that a per kind of observation, or do you see that in the field as well? Michael Lawrence Gordon - MongoDB, Inc. - COO & CFO Yes. So I think we really -- obviously, it's competitive, the market, big large markets draw competition. So -- and we've got a bunch of great competitors. So I would never suggest that it's always easy out there. But nevertheless, though, I think we're doing well. And I think if you look at it, there are really 3 main buckets of competition, right? The dollars or the wallet share and the relational databases, right, sort of the oracles, et cetera, the old, and I think we've talked to folks and try and provide examples in the earnings calls about customers where we're seeing continued relational migrations and success there. And those are really viewed as, certainly, important legacy technologies, but not what people tend to choose to build new applications on. And increasingly, people see the brittle nature and the complexity of what they're trying to do. And especially in today's environment where people are talking about 6 years of progress being achieved in a 6-month time frame and everything else, people want to innovate quickly, right? And for that, you need the most popular modern general purpose database, which is MongoDB, right? So we're sort of seeing that. And so I think that's a pretty established piece. You're definitely right. I think there was a group of insurgence, 5, 6, 7 years ago, who tried to sort of go after this big large market opportunity. I think we can pretty meaningfully distance ourselves from them. And so we don't see those folks, really, to your point. And then it's the cloud players. And I think the cloud players, it's a different story with each of the 3 large global hyperscale players. But I think on balance, the relationships tend to be competitive and cooperative, but seem to have a higher dose of cooperation. They're obviously ultimately competing against each other for an even bigger prize. And I think that they realize that the MongoDB Atlas workloads make their cloud stickier and help them sell the rest of their stack, which is valuable. The last thing that I'd say is to your point, broadly, we really have good win rates when we get into the -- if you kind of look at it on a deal-by-deal basis, including against the cloud players, whether it be their other offerings or their imitation offerings. And so we really like our chances when we're in the discussion. 4 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 10, 2020 / 2:30PM, MDB.OQ - MongoDB Inc at Barclays Global Technology, Media and Telecommunications Conference (Virtual) I think the risk for us particularly with the cloud players is that our footprint coverage, right, is so small relative to the size of the market opportunity that there may just be deals that we don't know about, right, or that were not considered. And someone's just -- and Dave talked about this in the prepared remarks in the earnings call, people are just thinking about a move to the cloud or thinking about a cost savings and are doing a lift and shift and not realizing that they're just transferring some of their problems, certainly, the problems that were related to being a relational database, right? And some of those challenges and constraints. And so I think we're -- increasingly people see and understand and appreciate that difference. Raimo Lenschow - Barclays Bank PLC, Research Division - MD & Analyst Yes. And then staying on Atlas a little bit, like it's been like one of the most amazing success stores I've seen in my space because you came from nothing like -- and when did you start? Like 2016 to like this year is going to be -- you're ending probably at 50% of revenue. Just walk us through a little bit the changes for you. Like, obviously, you're in the cloud, and there's a database in the cloud, but the change to your organization because you have like there's different -- the sales cycles are different. The revenue model, consumption, like how you get revenue is different, like it's a whole journey, and it's pretty amazing how you kind of gone through this. Michael Lawrence Gordon - MongoDB, Inc. - COO & CFO Yes. So there are a lot of flavors to it. And you're right, and I would certainly, by no means, suggest that we've perfected or satisfied with it. We continue to sort of optimize and experiment with different things. But you're right. It's a very different mindset. We've talked about -- probably the go-to-market side is maybe the easiest to talk about or easier for people to understand. First and foremost, starting with, we've created a self-service version, right? Previously, the closest thing we had to self-serve was you downloaded the free-to-use version and used it yourself, but we didn't make any money off of that. You weren't actually a customer. And so we had to build a set of skills that are more akin to consumer marketing really in terms of being able to identify -- raise awareness, identify and kind of a classic lead gen funnel, right, where you get sort of awareness, trial, experimentation adoption, free tier, people paying, et cetera, et cetera. And we're continuing to get better at that. You can see that show up in the numbers and the growth in the self-service numbers. There are more investments we want to make there. We hired a new CMO over the summer. And so continue to invest there and see a lot of opportunities. But I think it just sort of speaks to how big the market is and what we're doing. Then you've got -- now all of a sudden, you've got this pool of customers, even if I just kind of stick with the funnel, who are using the product. We now have product intelligence or product insights. We can see what they're doing, right? Previously, when it wasn't a product that we manage for them, right, they'd subscribe enterprise advance in the self-managed environment. We didn't have the visibility to help them and say, "Oh, you should be really doing this." And so you can apply the data science to say, all right, these are the actions or activities that indicate someone who has the potential to really dramatically improve their performance. And then what you want to do is if a human touch or human intervention can differentially drive that performance, you want to spend the time and effort to have someone go reach out and talk to them. If they're just going to grow on their own, which many do, they're not worth the time and cost to have someone go call them because you only really want to invest the time where you're going to drive incremental performance. And so those kinds of thought processes and mindsets are really quite different. The last thing that I'd say, and obviously, Serge, feel free to jump in with anything. But the last thing I'd say sort of at a macro level is we'd originally started thinking about the two channels, self-serve and the direct sales channel as fairly separate. And what we've increasingly seen over time is sort of a blurring in the sort of fishing pond concept where in classic enterprise sales, you'd have marketing and you have lead generation and you'd have marketing qualified leads, and you'd have all these things that the team was doing that said this is a high-value prospect. It's totally 5 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 10, 2020 / 2:30PM, MDB.OQ - MongoDB Inc at Barclays Global Technology, Media and Telecommunications Conference (Virtual) different when you actually have the customers. It's not just that you have firmographic data. Like you know how they're using the product, right? You have in-product signals. And that product-led growth is a very different kind of model. And so as we've seen sort of some of the channels, blur, and kind of cross-channel fertilization has been something that we've continued to iterate and work on. Actually, the last thing I'd say is we talked about this on the sales side and the direct sales side is some of the traditional enterprise software dynamics of a salesperson selling, trying to maximize like what is your annual contract value, right, how much are you signing up for in this annual commitment is a dynamic that's not perfectly consistent or compatible with the cloud, right? Cloud people -- cloud folks -- when you have a cloud model, people tend to think about it being more consumption oriented. And as a result, it was creating this artificial tension or friction, where as a sales rep, I'm trying to maximize your commitment. And you're sitting here saying, well, wait a second, I haven't even used the product. Like, how do I know how much I'm going to use? And so we made some changes. We observed that at the end of last year, we made some changes at the beginning of this year to address that and to sort of reduce that friction and just make sure that people can easily adopt in a more frictionless manner because we had the cohort data that showed that once they got on, the growth was strong. And so we made some of those tweaks and optimizations, and you're seeing that in the results. Serge, anything I missed or anything you want to add on that? Serge Tanjga - MongoDB, Inc. - VP of Finance and Business Operations I guess the only thing I would add is maybe the things that haven't changed, which is -- and you talked about sort of the amazing success and the fact that Atlas is approaching 50% mark. The one thing, though, that is important to remind is that the decision which product to use is something that we don't drive, and it's sort of made, ultimately, on the customer end. And obviously, Atlas has been successful, and we expect it to continue growing as a function of the business, but there's no sort of tipping point or acceleration or anything like that when we flip to Atlas being majority of the business. It's really just more of the same. Raimo Lenschow - Barclays Bank PLC, Research Division - MD & Analyst Yes. And Serge, like you probably have to report to Mike like, how do you think about getting visibility into a quarter then? Because I was talking with Snowflake yesterday and it's like, how do you predict consumption, how do you model and get consumption into a model and then say like, "oh, this is what I'm expecting from my quarter." Like what kind of stuff are you doing to kind of get visibility? Serge Tanjga - MongoDB, Inc. - VP of Finance and Business Operations So I on a quarterly basis, I actually feel like we have reasonable visibility. Now, obviously, we had the hiccup with COVID, and that's not trivial. But if you take that -- but that was -- COVID hiccup was sort of clearly 2 standard deviations away from the normal type of (inaudible) of our weekly consumption. But outside of that shock to the system, we have a reasonably diversified base. If you think about Atlas in 2 pieces, self-serve is highly diversified. So that's close to 20,000 customers, all relatively small, reasonably consistent cohort behavior. So like we have a reasonably good call on it, right? On the direct sales sold Atlas side, which is over half of Atlas at this point, back a couple of years ago, that was a problem because there was less diversification, and you needed a few large applications to do things abnormally. And if you remember, we had a quarter like that when that happened, that was Q4 of fiscal '19. But as we get closer, we have these debates internally, as we get closer to the future, what's the likelihood of a positive or a negative outlier really changing our view on a single app basis in Atlas, and that declines. We had COVID and sort of the broad-based slowdown that we experienced, 6 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 10, 2020 / 2:30PM, MDB.OQ - MongoDB Inc at Barclays Global Technology, Media and Telecommunications Conference (Virtual) that was a new event for us, but for everybody, I guess. But that notwithstanding, I feel like on a relatively short-term time horizon, a quarter or 2 consumption is not an incremental modeling challenge in my opinion. Raimo Lenschow - Barclays Bank PLC, Research Division - MD & Analyst Yes, yes. Okay. Okay. That's really helpful. And it sounds exciting, like it's going to be more and more interesting. The other thing that this year really changed was like the number of new customers you guys signed. Talk a little bit about the initiatives there. Like what's -- is that on purpose? It just happens? Or like what was... Michael Lawrence Gordon - MongoDB, Inc. - COO & CFO Yes, no, it's definitely intentional, and it goes back to the sort of macro comment that I said at the beginning, which is, I think it's a good reminder that it's a very large market, and we're very early on in capturing it. And these tweaks, optimization improvements that we've been making are having the desired effect. So I'd call out 2 things. One is within the self-service channel, is sort of trying to infuse more of that consumer marketing DNA, right, that we were discussing. And I think we're continuing to get better and better at that. When I say when you look at sort of the number of new registrations, and you're just going to work your way down the funnel, like you said, we haven't perfected it, but we're definitely getting better. And it's quite early on in terms of sort of the market adoption. And then on the sales sold side, I think the discussion that we're having earlier is probably the most tangible and sort of easy to process understanding of the changes, which is it's really focused on get folks on the platform, let's reduce some of these artificial barriers. And so rather than giving the salesperson an incentive to hold out for the maximum initial contract, instead, let's get them on. And as the customer grows and succeeds, we will reward you, the salesperson over time based on what their consumption is, right? And then ultimately, if you think about it from a mathematical standpoint, I think, is maybe useful in the context of the unit economics, which is the customers we're acquiring, there's no reason to believe that their behavior should be any different, right? It's just -- let's imagine that you're the customer and I'm negotiating with you, and I want you -- I think you should be signing an $80,000 contract and you're sitting here saying, "well, I'm only comfortable with $40,000", now, rather than like us going on and on and on and going several rounds about it, I'm going to say, okay, fine, I'm going to get paid in the $40,000. You're going to wind up consuming in the $80,000 or maybe whatever you end up consuming, I'm going to get paid for that over time. So that doesn't change your kind of LTV other than the fact that maybe I could argue, you're probably a lot happier because it was a lot easier to deal with me, so maybe satisfaction goes up and lifetime value goes up with that. But let's just assume it's flat. My velocity as a salesperson has gone up dramatically, right? Because I'm doing many, many fewer cycles with you because I'm not introducing these artificial barriers. And so the cost per acquisition goes down meaningfully because you can see it in the customer numbers, like you're acquiring many more customers. And so it's really introducing a fair amount of leverage. Lastly, while certainly, there are lots of negatives to COVID. I do think that we are a long-term beneficiary, and it is causing people to sort of reevaluate things, and I think that will help us in the long run. Raimo Lenschow - Barclays Bank PLC, Research Division - MD & Analyst Yes. Okay. No, that's -- yes. And it's amazing how like internal changes to you, like construct, et cetera, have such a kind of visible effect in the numbers. Like it's almost like a Harvard business review case study for (inaudible), I guess. Yes. 7 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 10, 2020 / 2:30PM, MDB.OQ - MongoDB Inc at Barclays Global Technology, Media and Telecommunications Conference (Virtual) Michael Lawrence Gordon - MongoDB, Inc. - COO & CFO Yes. Well -- and I think it's important, I think people understand this, but I'll just triple confirm. These are changes that we made prior to COVID, this is not a COVID-related change, just so that's clear. Raimo Lenschow - Barclays Bank PLC, Research Division - MD & Analyst Yes, yes. No, that's fair. Okay. The last couple of minutes, I wanted to talk about profitability. So like, obviously, like with better revenue and less travel, you're picking your profit forecast nicely. But like we also have to think slowly about like the way forward, like what are the stuff that you took away that you think like, "oh, actually, that's something we could kind of continue to do going forward and will help me in profitability"? And just a couple of examples maybe there. Or like (inaudible). Michael Lawrence Gordon - MongoDB, Inc. - COO & CFO Do you want to talk about that, Serge, and then me too. Serge Tanjga - MongoDB, Inc. - VP of Finance and Business Operations Yes. Why don't I start? So if you think about -- so just to take a step back and remind everybody, when COVID hit, we obviously had a lot of questions around revenues, and we discussed those and obviously have outperformed, since then, our expectations quite materially. But there was also a pretty immediate cost effect, which is all travel stopped, everybody stopped going to the offices. We exited co-working spaces, which were used frequently for our smaller satellite offices and also marketing events, which was a big bucket of what we've used particularly to generate sort of ongoing relationship with our strongest sort of advocates among the developer community, like MongoDB world, all those went virtual. And it obviously fractioned the cost. So we then looked opportunistically and decided to use that as an opportunity to accelerate investment in other areas. And 2 things that we called out on our Q1 call were accelerating hiring and engineering to bring forward our road map because, a, we had savings, but also it was a good market to -- the market got better for acquiring (inaudible). And then secondly, back to the sort of the continuing growth and improving our experience -- or sorry, our expertise in digital marketing, we invested there more. And again, it was opportunistic because actually online pricing went down in terms of ads. So now as we fast forward, obviously, we're going to continue investing in the business as we look forward to some point in the future and COVID going away, how are those 3 buckets of savings going to change. So I will start with events. I think we will definitely do events. I think it's probably a long time before 2,000 people are comfortable being in a hotel in Manhattan like we would do for MongoDB world, but I would fully imagine that at some point, we did it because, again, it was like a very strong way to galvanize sort of our core supporter group. So I don't know when, but I would assume that is, at some point, 100% back. On the offices, you mean -- you read the journal at the time as much as we do. Every company is considering this and tech companies are seeing it differently than we do. What we've learned is that we can be tremendously effective working remotely. But at the same time, we've -- especially as this goes on, people are missing ability to collaborate in person, and people are missing the ability to get to really know their colleagues socially, the kind of stuff that you cannot create if your entire life is scheduled Zoom after Zoom. 8 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 10, 2020 / 2:30PM, MDB.OQ - MongoDB Inc at Barclays Global Technology, Media and Telecommunications Conference (Virtual) So the office is probably not 5 days when we come back, but it's probably an office. It looks differently. It serves differently, probably a smaller footprint for the same amount of whatever number of people. But that's probably what it looks like. But we like everybody else are working on what they really need. And in travel, I would say that's the one with the most debate internally because, look, like a lot of our travel is customer-driven. And then the question is, not next year, but 2 or 3 years out, will the pressure to go see customer face-to-face return? And if your competitor is going, are you going to get on a plane? I think that's -- that necessarily just drove us, I think that's true in every industry. So it will be a gradual return next year, I'm sure. But whether we are 100% of those expenses, 2 or 3 years out, sort of a little bit of it remains to be seen. Raimo Lenschow - Barclays Bank PLC, Research Division - MD & Analyst Yes. Okay. I could kind of talk for a lot longer, but I'm already 2 minutes over my time. So I got to let you go. Michael, Serge, that was really helpful. Thank you. Michael Lawrence Gordon - MongoDB, Inc. - COO & CFO Good to see you. Thanks for having us. Raimo Lenschow - Barclays Bank PLC, Research Division - MD & Analyst Take care. DISCLAIMER Refinitiv reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes. In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized. THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES REFINITIV OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS. 2020, Refinitiv. All Rights Reserved. 13537766-2020-12-10T16:08:22.197 9 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 10, 2020 / 2:30PM, MDB.OQ - MongoDB Inc at Barclays Global Technology, Media and Telecommunications Conference (Virtual)
REFINITIV STREETEVENTS EDITED TRANSCRIPT FTV.N - Fortive Corp at UBS Global TMT Conference (Virtual) EVENT DATE/TIME: DECEMBER 07, 2020 / 6:55PM GMT REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS Charles E. McLaughlin Fortive Corporation - Senior VP & CFO James A. Lico Fortive Corporation - President, CEO & Director CONFERENCE CALL PARTICIPANTS Markus M. H. Mittermaier UBS Investment Bank, Research Division - Head & US Equity Research Analyst of Americas Electrical Equipment and Multi Industry Research PRESENTATION Markus M. H. Mittermaier - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division - Head & US Equity Research Analyst of Americas Electrical Equipment and Multi Industry Research Good morning and good afternoon, everyone. This is Markus Mittermaier and heads up the U.S. multi-industry team here at UBS. And I'm delighted to welcome Fortive at this year's UBS TMT Conference. The format today will be a fireside chat for 40 minutes. If you'd like to ask a question, please use the little text box that you see on your screen or simply e-mail me at markus.mittermaier@ubs.com. With us today are Jim Lico, President and CEO; as well as Chuck McLaughlin, SVP and CFO. Gentlemen, thanks so much for taking the time today. And without further ado, let me hand it over to Jim now for some opening comments. James A. Lico - Fortive Corporation - President, CEO & Director Thanks, Markus, and good afternoon, everyone. It's wonderful to -- happy Monday. It's great to start the week with an opportunity to talk a little bit more about Fortive. We obviously have had a very busy year despite many of the challenges of COVID. Chuck and I are obviously excited to talk about kind of where we're at today as we sit here in December and look forward to finishing the year here and looking into 2021. For those who know the story, this might be a repeat. But for those who are new to the story, we certainly are incredibly excited about the work we've done since we spun out of Danaher in 2016 to really transform the company. And I think where we stand today after the Vontier separation, we're very proud of the work we did, and we're excited about the opportunity for Vontier to move on as a separate, independent company. And we're incredibly excited to talk about what New Fortive looks like and the opportunities available to us as we push into 2021 and beyond. So a lot accomplished this year. We won't spend as much time on that as we will about the future. But Markus, thanks for the opportunity today to talk, and we'll look forward to questions from you and from others. QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS Markus M. H. Mittermaier - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division - Head & US Equity Research Analyst of Americas Electrical Equipment and Multi Industry Research Great. Thanks so much. And it was a great segue, reflecting on a busy year. And as we look forward, we have the TMT conference today, and hopefully, we'll have the chance again to talk at our Industrials Conference in June. So if I can ask, for the next 6 months between now and then, what are your top priorities as you think about starting the new year now post the separation? And then maybe more long term, hopefully, post COVID, what are the 2 or 3 things that you are focusing on now in your thinking? 2 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 07, 2020 / 6:55PM, FTV.N - Fortive Corp at UBS Global TMT Conference (Virtual) James A. Lico - Fortive Corporation - President, CEO & Director Yes. This is Jim. I think, number one, obviously, 2020 has been a year in which you really have to be -- I think pushes everybody's manual dexterity and ability to be ambidextrous in new and different ways. Obviously, a big focus of the year was the work we did from a transformation perspective, not only on the portfolio, but on the digital transformation to get roughly 2/3 of our worker -- workforce now working productively from home. We're incredibly proud of the work we've done to do that, Markus. So I think that was a big focus, obviously, in the summer. Getting Vontier separated as well as a number of the acquisitions that we've done over the last few years have been a high priority. Those will continue to be -- certainly, the safety of our employees will continue to be top of mind as we look into the next few months. Obviously, the news recently here on vaccines and some of those things are incredibly important. But we also know that with increased caseload comes increased diligence on the part of our leadership team to make sure that our team members are safe. While we continue to build the business strategically, I would say if you were to look -- what are our 2 or 3 real places of focus? Number one, I think what we've tried to do over the last year, several years is to continue to accelerate the innovation capability of Fortive broadly across all of our operating businesses. And I think we've been -- we've made great progress in that, but believe that still remains a great opportunity. What you'll see now, and I'm sure we'll talk more about it, in our new segments of Fortive are 3 operating segments that have tremendous opportunity to play deeper in customer workflows, really not only with the hardware advantages that we really have had from a legacy perspective over decades of business and dealing with customers in those industries, but now the opportunity to bring more software, bring more data analytics into those workflows to build more sustainable customer relationships and, quite frankly, build more sustainable business models. So we're very early days in that. And we'll talk a little bit more about those priorities, but I think the work we're doing to continue to build out our capability on the software side, to continue to build the technology infrastructure in which to support that, to really focus the Fortive Business System on ways to really accelerate all of our strategic work, I think, really remain -- and then certainly to bring more data analytics into our solutions as machine learning and data become such an important part of our offering in the decade to come. Doing the foundational work in that is -- remains a very important priority for this year, and certainly in that case, will certainly be a priority in the years to come. Markus M. H. Mittermaier - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division - Head & US Equity Research Analyst of Americas Electrical Equipment and Multi Industry Research Great. Excellent. yes, I'll have a couple of follow-ups in a second here on that. But before we get there, just from an organizational setup, if I look at the structure post separation now. I was wondering, internally, is that how you've run things now for a while? Or is there some rearrangements in the structure and org chart happening at the moment? I mean, from the outside, it seems the real big move was Fluke Biomedical. But is there any other sort of big internal adjustments that you're working through? Or is it pretty much ready to go in the new structure? James A. Lico - Fortive Corporation - President, CEO & Director Yes. The short answer is it's very much how we've been running the businesses over the last, really more than 1 year. So I think in that sense, very little change. You mentioned the Fluke Health move from what was used to be field solutions platform now into the segment for health care. So we think the segment gives -- obviously gives tremendous clarity around our financials and the growth opportunities that exist in those segments. But from an operational perspective, very much same as usual for our operating leaders and for how Chuck and I really interact with those businesses. 3 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 07, 2020 / 6:55PM, FTV.N - Fortive Corp at UBS Global TMT Conference (Virtual) Markus M. H. Mittermaier - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division - Head & US Equity Research Analyst of Americas Electrical Equipment and Multi Industry Research Okay. Great. And then coming back to the priorities you just mentioned. I mean, if I look at the portfolio in very broad term now, you are roughly 13% software, just under 40% recurring. Where do you see these 2 numbers go here over the next few years? What's the aspiration? James A. Lico - Fortive Corporation - President, CEO & Director I think we start with -- it's -- we're incredibly proud of where those numbers are. And I think those numbers are reflective of the strategic work that we've done to really engage more deeply with customers. So obviously, the software percentage and the recurring revenue, and I'll get back to maybe what those might look like. Those numbers were -- the software numbers were low single digits when we spun out of Danaher, the recurring revenue was about half, maybe a little less than half. So certainly, a dramatic effect in less than -- in about 4.5 years relative to those numbers. But it really is about our strategy. And our strategy is really to continue to look at what customers are trying to do. And increasingly, they want to do more with the engagement we have with them. They see the strength of our instrumentation, our sensors. They want to do more with that. They want to get the data from those opportunities. And then they want to be able to do something with that data around analytics. So I would say, if you were to say if past, I would not predict, we don't -- we do set some internal goals around those numbers in terms of both the organic and inorganic work that we would do to make sure that we continue to increase those percentages. But it really has to do with really making sure that our strategies are resonating with customers. And obviously, there's an organic part -- inorganic part of that, which is hard to predict. But I would say if you just saw the growth rates of our software businesses and said, "They will certainly become a larger part of Fortive in the future just because of their organic growth rates being higher." You would suspect the majority of our capital allocation will be -- will really be to move those businesses forward and to add new businesses into our portfolio that look similar to a Censis or an Accruent or eMaint. And so I would say those percentages will be dramatically different in the decade to come, but hard to predict in the next 2 or 3 years what that might look like. But it is safe to say that those percentages will continue to increase. And obviously, it really helps us build a longer-term, more durable relationship with customers. And the outgrowth of that is a higher-growth, more durable business model. Markus M. H. Mittermaier - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division - Head & US Equity Research Analyst of Americas Electrical Equipment and Multi Industry Research Okay. Great. I'd get to M&A in a second. I already get some questions here from clients on the topic as well. But maybe staying sort of with the broad sort of overview for now. As we think about, again, the new portfolio and sort of through-cycle growth rates, as is, without sort of incremental M&A, do you see this as sort of like a GDP-plus-type growing business? Is it mid-single digits? Or how should we really think about this through the cycles? And then on incrementals, I know that you kind of in the past guided us to 30%, 35%, in that range. How should we think about that going forward? Is that heading towards the 40s? What's kind of the -- how do we think about those 2 elements here going forward? Charles E. McLaughlin - Fortive Corporation - Senior VP & CFO Markus, this is Chuck. I'll take that one. Going forward, we think through the cycles, mid-single-digit growth is the way to think of the business. Now coming out of -- when we get into a recovery period post COVID, you'll see it be a little higher. But if you take a look at the next 3 or 4 years and stretch that out, mid-single digits is where we believe that we've transformed the portfolio to. And so we feel great about that progress. 4 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 07, 2020 / 6:55PM, FTV.N - Fortive Corp at UBS Global TMT Conference (Virtual) In terms of the margins that you talked about, 35% is the construct for 2021, and we think that's the right place to be. Keeping in mind it's a little bit specific to 2021 as we got some temporary costs that we managed in 2020 that will be coming back in. And so that's what -- and also keep in mind, we don't actually know. We have a range of scenarios. We're not calling the top line yet, that's the biggest unknown right now. But 35% makes sense that going forward, let's get to the other side of COVID, and it depends on, is there a rebound? How much the top line is growing? But through the cycles, I'd probably be north of 35%. But let's get through this pandemic first, and then we'll be a little bit more declarative, I think, in -- as we move through next year. Markus M. H. Mittermaier - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division - Head & US Equity Research Analyst of Americas Electrical Equipment and Multi Industry Research Understood. Understood. Okay. And then maybe if I look at sort of the gross margins across the board, sort of in the high 50s in the various segments. If I look at the delta between sort of gross margin and operating margin, I guess, R&D intensity varies to some extent across these businesses. But structurally, do you see that delta between gross and operating sort of stay at current levels? Or is there some room maybe ex TSA? How should we think about those, that delta there? Charles E. McLaughlin - Fortive Corporation - Senior VP & CFO Well, first, let me dive into the R&D one. I think with the separation of the companies, I think r&D, we've been funding at each operating company along the way. But it would be over 6.5% moving towards 7% over time as we move forward. A couple of things to keep in mind there is where we -- at each operating company, there's a different level of R&D. In some of the places where we have really high gross margins, particularly in our software businesses, they probably have more R&D. And they're compounding at a faster rate than their overall business. So that will quite naturally keep the pressure moving up there on R&D. That's also, we think, one of the big underpinnings to the gross margins. We'll see those continue to expand as we go forward. When you look at the operating profit by segment, it's -- all of them are exceptional, I believe, and we'll be, as you look out a couple of years, north of 25%, pushing 30%, depending on which segment. The rate at which they bounce back really depends on how the recovery and when it starts coming out of the pandemic. Markus M. H. Mittermaier - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division - Head & US Equity Research Analyst of Americas Electrical Equipment and Multi Industry Research Got it. Okay. Okay. That helps. And then maybe one around your end markets and the underlying drivers for that. I mean, if I look at IOS and particularly at Fluke, a lot of your larger businesses are certainly linked to some extent, at least, to industrial production. But some pieces, particularly in Tektronix, are also tied to development cycles, standard evolution and real technological evolution over time. Is there any upcoming sort of development cycles or R&D windows that we should have in our minds, maybe for Tek, that might lead to above or below IP type growth, right, be it on the oscilloscope side or anywhere else there within Tek? James A. Lico - Fortive Corporation - President, CEO & Director Yes. I think -- well, first, I think you characterize what we've done at Fluke pretty well, maybe just to hit that really quickly. Obviously, with Fluke Health moving out, Fluke in itself, and you remember from the groupings we showed in the last couple of quarters. The Fluke core industrial business may be a little bit more tied to that than our eMaint software and what we're trying to do at Fluke Reliability. So I think we'll continue to evolve Fluke less towards industrial production. It will always have that aspect to it. And Fluke typically returns faster to growth, if you will, through the cycle than maybe, say, Tektronix if we're to use sort of historical economic cycles. 5 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 07, 2020 / 6:55PM, FTV.N - Fortive Corp at UBS Global TMT Conference (Virtual) You mentioned Tektronix. I think what we've tried to do, Markus, over the last decade or so with Tektronix is to make it less susceptible to some of these big technology swings, less tied to things like, as you said, the semiconductor capital index and things like that. So whether that's the addition that we've made to services to really, I think, mute some of the down parts of the cycle; or it's the work we've been doing around customer and end markets to really go after opportunities like the data center market, we've seen some nice work with some of the work we're doing. A lot of -- one of the challenges with IoT sensors and IoT connections can often be the power issues and the need for low-power sensors and things like that, that fits very well with our oscilloscope range as well as our Keithley range. So there are a number of secular drivers that are good here. IoT is one of them. Electric vehicles is one. We've seen nice growth in our auto business as well. No one segment dominates Tektronix any longer. So I think our ability to sort of see things come back, fundamentally, what we do see is we do see Tek -- when the economy gets better, we do see a little bit of a better bump in a short period of time, simply because people have deferred some of those purchases of a oscilloscopes. So we do see things come back a little bit quicker. Hard to call right now when that might be, but we do -- we will inevitably see that, we believe. And I think also the work we've been doing around innovation to continue to take advantage of some of the technology trends I just mentioned is really very much part of that. Our launch here of 6- and 8 channel version of our 6 series oscilloscopes is an example. Great example of really taking advantage of some of the challenges and product development engineers have in some of these IoT device developments that we think is a good opportunity for us. So we'll continue to build on that. And I think fundamentally, Tek, the team there, has done a wonderful job. We're also inevitably trying to figure out, "Hey, we create a lot of data in the oscilloscopes. That's always been the key part of -- the output of an oscilloscope has always been the great value that we create. How do we monetize that?" And I think we're very early days. But I would say, over the next several years, the Tektronix team has got a number of ideas that, that can be an opportunity to continue to build a growthier Tektronix as well. Markus M. H. Mittermaier - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division - Head & US Equity Research Analyst of Americas Electrical Equipment and Multi Industry Research That's very helpful. And then maybe on to M&A. If I look at your total addressable market across the 3 segments, kind of pushing north of $30 billion here. Should we think about M&A sort of within these segments? Are you happy with these 3 segments? And should we read anything into AHS being sort of relatively smaller compared to the other 2 in terms of your priorities going forward? Or does that relative size between the 3 not really matter to you in your thinking? James A. Lico - Fortive Corporation - President, CEO & Director Well, yes, I think it does matter. And I -- let me start with the $30 billion. We're incredibly -- we've had, I think at our high point, maybe $35 billion of served market in our history over the last 4.5 years. But the quality of the served market today, in terms of the quality of the businesses and the opportunity, has never been better. So I think, first of all, if I step back and just look at the $30 billion, the quality of it, in the markets and the growth, and just really, really exciting. And as you mentioned, a little bit different in health. Maybe I think that more constitutes the fact that we now have a newer health care segment than really anything more than that. So I think the opportunities there still remain very good. If you look at what we've done over the last 4.5 years, we've deployed about an equal amount of dollar capital between IOS and Advanced Health Care. But the number of deals has been more in IOS. We -- I never want to say the past is the future. But I do think that we believe that there are unique opportunities across the segment. And obviously, we've designated some workflows. Precision tech is the place where we've not spent as much money in the last 4.5 years, but we remain optimistic that there are opportunities there as well. 6 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 07, 2020 / 6:55PM, FTV.N - Fortive Corp at UBS Global TMT Conference (Virtual) So I think we have opportunities within the segments. Certainly as we continue to build on the things we've done inorganically, it adds to even more opportunities. It's probably why we see a bigger IOS opportunity because the number of deals that we've done in IOS presents us with more served market. But I think the work we've been doing strategically, particularly over the last 12 months as we've been preparing for this new segmentation and preparing for how we'll think about New Fortive, we couldn't be in a better position, both strategically and from a capital perspective in which to, I think, bring some great companies into Fortive in the future. Markus M. H. Mittermaier - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division - Head & US Equity Research Analyst of Americas Electrical Equipment and Multi Industry Research Okay. Great. And obviously, in that context, the elephant in the room is multiples, right? I mean, with multiples where they are, discount rates where they are. Software wasn't cheap at any point, but certainly, it doesn't look like it's getting any cheaper. How does that inform you what you focus on? And has your hurdle rate or your ROIC framework on a pro forma basis changed here in any way? James A. Lico - Fortive Corporation - President, CEO & Director Well, I think, first, you're right, we would always like multiples to be lower for high-quality assets that we want to bring into the family. It's really about value creation. As you know, our model is, first, do we like the market? Do we like the company? Can we create value? We have to have a yes to all 3 of those. And so I think, first, before we even talk about what the ROIC or the return on capital can be, it really starts with the market -- the quality of the market, the quality of the company and our value creation. FBS today even more appropriate for the kinds of businesses that are coming into Fortive. So I feel very good. We would love for valuations to be different, always lower. I've been doing this for 25 years, and I never remember a time when I didn't wish that the valuation could be a better opportunity. But as I said, the quality of the businesses have gone up considerably as well, and that's inherent a little bit in if we're going to go for higher growth, more SaaS, higher recurring revenue, higher profitability, great gross margin profile, fundamentally, those are probably going to have higher valuations. So it's really about how we create value. Charles E. McLaughlin - Fortive Corporation - Senior VP & CFO And Markus, for -- on the ROICs, we haven't moved how we evaluate things. We're always looking at how long it takes us, time to get to 10% ROIC here. And I think that over the last 5 years, we've averaged, of everything we've done, between 4 and 5 years is what we're tracking to, we, of course always like to do a little bit better, but it depends on if we do a bolt-on, we'd like to get to that 10% in 3 years. And if we do more of a platform, bigger deployment, it will go to 10 years. And so that's our construct, and we don't see a reason to come off of that. We do see things sometimes that look, in the moment, a little bit expensive. But usually, when we deploy something, that's because we think they're worth that and there's value that will be created. Markus M. H. Mittermaier - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division - Head & US Equity Research Analyst of Americas Electrical Equipment and Multi Industry Research Okay. That's helpful. And then maybe on the sensing business. I mean, if I look at that part outside-in, it's certainly more fragmented and it sort of goes back to the old Danaher portfolio. And you mentioned earlier that you've kind of done less on the M&A side here on that front. Is there an opportunity for consolidation? Or is there untapped potential in that business? How should we think about that fragmentedness of that market? 7 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 07, 2020 / 6:55PM, FTV.N - Fortive Corp at UBS Global TMT Conference (Virtual) James A. Lico - Fortive Corporation - President, CEO & Director Yes. I think as you pointed out, these have been businesses that have been part of the portfolio for a long time, haven't really spent, hardly any, real meaningful M&A capital in those segments in that -- in those sets of businesses for quite some time. We've done a nice job, I think in particular the last few years, of repositioning the businesses organically. Whether it be in our -- towards higher-growth opportunities in food and beverage and sanitary markets like at our Anderson-Negele business or the environmental monitoring that we're now doing as a bigger part of our business, et cetera. Fundamentally better, growthier opportunities. Still in the very early days. We're really moving up from just being a sensor provider, in many cases, to being a broader player. As an example, we now do a digital process recorder in our Anderson-Negele business that allows for us to do some different things in the workflow. I would see that continuing. We've just done all of our strategic plans in the last few months with those businesses, and I think they've done the best job they've ever done at capturing some thinking around that, but very early days. And if there's an opportunity to do something from an M&A perspective that accelerates that strategy, we'd certainly be open to doing that. I think there's real opportunity. You first have to do the high-quality strategic work, which I think we've done. I think historically, we've had much more of an organic focus in those businesses. But I think the expectation is then becoming a bigger, more important part of Precision Technologies. We've raised the bar on the expectations around what they could do relative organically and inorganically, and I think the team's done a nice job of rising to the occasion. But you never know when things like that might transpire, but I think there is opportunity there for sure. Markus M. H. Mittermaier - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division - Head & US Equity Research Analyst of Americas Electrical Equipment and Multi Industry Research Okay. Great. Maybe last few on capital allocation here. But in the general area of cash, we are waiting for the Vontier monetization here over the course of next year. I think you said first half or well before the end of the first half. Is that a bottleneck for anything you might want to do on the M&A side? And then maybe as a segue, sort of leverage limitations, how should we think about equity maybe as a currency also here for potential acquisitions? Charles E. McLaughlin - Fortive Corporation - Senior VP & CFO Markus, this is Chuck. The Vontier retain stake really isn't a gating factor at all. We've -- we were actually in a pretty good leverage position before that. And also, since there's this timing to that, that will happen in -- some time in 2021, most likely. It can't go beyond that. So it's definitely not a gating factor for us moving forward. From a leverage standpoint, what we're saying is we'll use our free cash flow towards M&A. And given that we're very -- we want to have investment-grade rating, that's very important to us. What you'll see is us stretch from time to time. And we'll go up to, say, 3.5x, but only to the point where we see a path back down into -- around that 2, if you're talking about net leverage, or a little less, that we get back. Much like you saw us do probably over the last year, where we came into this year thinking that we're going to be a little bit light now. That was before the COVID impact, but because of the year before was really heavy. So I think that's sort of ebb and flow, but keeping our balance sheet strong is really what you can expect us to do. 8 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 07, 2020 / 6:55PM, FTV.N - Fortive Corp at UBS Global TMT Conference (Virtual) Markus M. H. Mittermaier - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division - Head & US Equity Research Analyst of Americas Electrical Equipment and Multi Industry Research Great. And equity as a potential currency going forward, is that on the -- an option at all? Or... Charles E. McLaughlin - Fortive Corporation - Senior VP & CFO Well, I think that you've seen that from a capital deployment point of view, everything has been on the table. And for the right situation? Yes, it would be. Shareholder value is the most important thing to us. And -- but we understand that, that's also one of the currencies that we have. Markus M. H. Mittermaier - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division - Head & US Equity Research Analyst of Americas Electrical Equipment and Multi Industry Research Okay. Great. And Jim, maybe if I come back to something you said around various scenarios you're kind of planning for in 2021. And I mean, obviously, there's a lot of balls in the air at the moment. But what are you looking at kind of to inform that decision? And maybe if you look near term at channel inventories, where do we stand there? What are your channel partners telling you? Are they at equilibrium? Should there be a restock at some point? How do you think about the kind of near-term trajectory of the different patterns that you kind of set up the business for here over the next quarter or 2? James A. Lico - Fortive Corporation - President, CEO & Director Yes. I think you're exactly right. I think, first and foremost, we've created some scenarios and subsequent data that we'd be tracking along those scenarios to sort of have a sense. Finishing the year is important to that, Markus. I think we get a good sense of how customers are thinking about at least the first part of 2021 by how they finished 2020. So we'll be informed over the next month or so as we take stock of where we're at, at the end of the year. I think that's an important component. The trends that we see, whether that be things like our point of sale, we got good point-of-sale data at Fluke and at Tektronix as well as with some of our channel partners and at ASP on the health care side. So we'll be looking at our -- we'll be looking at those point-of-sale trends. I did operating reviews with a number of our European businesses last week to get a sense of what they were seeing, as another sort of formal process for us as just doing -- getting with our teams to understand. I talked with our largest channel partner in the world, the CEO of that firm, last week as well to get a sense of how they're thinking about it. So a lot of data points. I think it all comes down to watching our point-of-sale data as well as things like industrial production and PMIs. We'll track those to see what those are going. We want to see elective procedures. That's obviously a driver in the health care business. Particularly at ASP, we're going to continue to track those things. And just by and large, where the -- what's going on with the virus and what people are doing relative to working from home, how are we transacting business? As I've said to a number of folks, that our sales cycles have moved out as -- we've improved them significantly since the second quarter, but they're still longer. So the time it takes from a lead to the time we engage with a customer to the time we get a purchase order, that's still taking longer than pre-COVID days. I was talking to one of our European businesses last week who said, "Hey, in the summertime, late summer, early fall, we were back to visiting customers on-site. 30-plus percent of the time. We're back to only doing that about 10% of the time because of the increase in cases." So hence, our desire to want to understand what's going on with cases around the world to understand what the pace of transacting business is. I think we still see good durability in the business models. And so I think at the end of the day, we still kind of have a basic premise. Obviously, we have an easier comp in the second quarter, but the first half, I think, remains noisy as we see all those things transpire. We'd like to think that the 9 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 07, 2020 / 6:55PM, FTV.N - Fortive Corp at UBS Global TMT Conference (Virtual) second half starts to get more certainty as you start to get caseloads. I was reading something last night that seems pretty relevant around how many folks will get the vaccine and what that looks like in the U.S. Obviously still a big factor around the world. So those are certainly things we're going to track here. I think what we know to be true is we'll continue to manage the business in a way that helps us understand that we create opportunities for us. Chuck mentioned how we think about the incrementals here. And that has, in part, wanting to continue to allocate resources around our highest-growth opportunities while still making sure that we're prepared from a earnings and free cash flow. And I think the durability of the business model means we're going to continue to do exceptional in terms of free cash flow, and that will certainly present more opportunities for us. So stepping back to your answer, I think we -- those scenarios are really focused on really the number of things I described. And that probably rolls up to a little noisier first half and a little bit more certainty in the second half, hopefully. But still a lot of work to be done between now and then to really see if that actually plays out. Markus M. H. Mittermaier - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division - Head & US Equity Research Analyst of Americas Electrical Equipment and Multi Industry Research Okay. And I appreciate it's obviously hard at the moment to make any sort of prediction. But maybe coming back then to a more strategic point and longer term, what we talked on software earlier. There's a lot of companies out there that talk about IoT, industrial software, industrial tech, et cetera. But then you look deeper and you actually hunt for tangible kind of software revenue dollars or tangible sort of evidence that these business models lead to top line, bottom line, et cetera. The answer often is they are just being developed, right? And we don't really know yet. Now with you being a sort of 13%-ish organic at the moment on the software side, do you think sort of being embedded in the -- in these -- all these workflows at your customers, is -- does that make it easier with your legacy hardware to cross-sell to up-sell versus maybe the average company out there? Or how should we think about that incremental step to actually tell a customer that Software ABC might be something that they need which they probably never thought about? James A. Lico - Fortive Corporation - President, CEO & Director Yes. It is -- it definitely -- well, first of all, I think the tangible results is an important point. Chuck mentioned, if you look at our gross margins now nearing 60%, if you look at our recurring revenue at just nearing 40%, you could look at our net retention and some of the things we talk about relative to our software businesses, I think those are the real evidence points of real transformation. As you said, we're going to follow our customers here in where they want to go. And what they're telling us is because of the domain expertise that we have in these workflows, because of the presence and the decades of relationships that we have at a Fluke or a Tek or an ASP, as an example, those strong relationships are ultimately going to help us, give us degrees of freedom and opportunity in which to extend our business models with them, extend our business relationship. And we're really getting, in many cases, pulled into those opportunities because of the long-term relationships. And I wouldn't discount the domain expertise. Because to really build the accurate data models, as an example, around these businesses, having domain expertise is a real asset. So as an example, we bought PRUFTECHNIK 1.5 years ago because of their deep understanding of vibration. That deep understanding allows for us to build data analytics models around condition monitoring that ultimately gives us an advantage. So I think, first and foremost, you talk about the tangible things. And I think when you look at Fortive, you see the real tangible results of our business model changing, our financial results changing and those kinds of things. And then within the businesses, there's very unique stories. As I mentioned, at Fluke and what we do with eMaint, we're very much in condition monitoring. We're very much leveraging the positions that we have at Fluke to continue to extend our business models. 10 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 07, 2020 / 6:55PM, FTV.N - Fortive Corp at UBS Global TMT Conference (Virtual) And the range of businesses at [according] and Accruent, where we don't really have -- we come from some domain expertise in facilities management, but quite frankly, we're moving farther and faster around maybe being a little bit more agnostic and being hardware-agnostic and really being able to leverage our domain expertise into the deep software relationships that we already have. And then in health care, a slightly mixed opportunity. Certainly an opportunity to leverage customer relationships, but at the same time, we're going to -- we're also going to have some partnerships, if you will, like at a Censis with a Cantel Medical that we announced today as a partnership opportunity to extend Censis while at the same time building our ASP business. So it really does depend on how we go to market within the workflow. But I think what is constant and foundational is our domain expertise for sure. The ability to really extend ourselves with customers and globalize the business, take advantages of our global footprint. And then finally, just really continuing to think about how we expand and invest in the businesses to move our software solutions to more data analytics, machine learning, to fundamentally help customers get even more value out of the software dollar. So the upselling and cross-selling that comes from that is really very, very early days in these businesses, but really does give us a great opportunity for long-term value creation beyond just what we're doing with software today. So hopefully, that gives you both a strategic and a financial view. I think the tangible results will continue to accelerate. The business model transformation will continue to accelerate. That obviously means higher free cash flow, better recurring revenue and a more durable business model for Fortive. Markus M. H. Mittermaier - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division - Head & US Equity Research Analyst of Americas Electrical Equipment and Multi Industry Research Yes. Got it. And you mentioned Censis. Maybe if we can make that a case in point here. Because one of the question that obviously comes up is like what's the incremental margin on some of the SaaS revenue that you generate, right? And if I look at Censis, is it fair to assume that, that largely gets pushed through your -- or could get pushed going forward through your kind of ASP sales force? And therefore, SaaS incrementals should be quite high? I mean, I know that in practice, they can range widely. But is that fair to assume, that we should have very, very accretive sort of incrementals if you can push that to existing sales forces? And to what extent is that true for some of these software companies that you've built or integrated? James A. Lico - Fortive Corporation - President, CEO & Director Well, I think certainly, you really, I think, very much characterized how -- our starting point, which is building off our hardware advantage and our domain expertise. And it does vary in various sectors. So in a -- as I mentioned, and just to deal with your question directly. Certainly in the case of a Censis, we're going to continue to invest in that business as a stand-alone business because of the opportunities. There's certainly going to be opportunities to leverage relationships and partnerships that we have within the ASP business and the global footprint that exists. So it will sort of depend, particularly on the part of the world where we're trying to accelerate the business. I think the one standing fact you can say is that the health care, and just take health care in general, we continue to believe that, that our relationships in terms of how we deal with hospitals, maybe in the United States, the ability to leverage those relationships, is certainly a core foundational part of creating value. 11 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 07, 2020 / 6:55PM, FTV.N - Fortive Corp at UBS Global TMT Conference (Virtual) The incrementals will -- are always going to be high on software, but we're also going to continue to make sure that we're investing in the future, globalizing the businesses to some extent. As an example, you saw Accruent very well in the third quarter in Europe because we're trying to really grow that business and extend it in Europe. So we're always going to be in a growth mode in these businesses, too. So there will be -- there will always be that sort of managing of how much money we put to the bottom line. But certainly as you point out, in software, the starting point of the contribution margin that comes from software, obviously, always going to be high. And it will always be dependent on the growth opportunities and how we accelerate growth. And that will differ by workflow. But clearly, your thesis that we have a foundational opportunity with hardware to build off of is certainly true. Markus M. H. Mittermaier - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division - Head & US Equity Research Analyst of Americas Electrical Equipment and Multi Industry Research Great. And I know we are coming towards the end here, but maybe 2 quick ones. Well, I don't know they're that quick, but let's see. When you buy some of these maybe smaller company and midsized companies, how do you actually make sure that the talent stays, right? And how do you kind of manage the integration here? What's the track record been on some of these integrations? James A. Lico - Fortive Corporation - President, CEO & Director Yes. Talent's critical in these businesses, for sure. I think we're very fortunate to have been incredibly successful at retention. It doesn't mean that every single person stays. But I think if you looked across, as an example, the software businesses, the folks today in terms of leading the businesses are all have been within the business. So we have a real opportunity. We're building real scale in terms of talent capability across our software businesses. So that's obviously a really important aspect. I think we've become a place for talents, our ability to bring in folks from the outside to supplement our capability as well has been pretty good. So I think, on balance, our talent retention has been good. It's important. And it continues -- we don't take that for granted. But I think what it's starting point is, is our independent operating model. When -- we don't get -- our businesses don't get sort of deluged into a big, amorphous organization. Our stand-alone operating company model really means we continue to stay entrepreneurial. We stay focused to the customers that are there. And I think that ultimately is our business model that is a key part of our retention strategy as well. Markus M. H. Mittermaier - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division - Head & US Equity Research Analyst of Americas Electrical Equipment and Multi Industry Research Great. Okay. And then maybe anything that I should have asked that I haven't asked given the 40 minutes we've had? And if not, then I'll leave the floor to you for some closing remarks, if that's okay. James A. Lico - Fortive Corporation - President, CEO & Director Yes. I think, first of all, I'm remembering that I didn't answer your question on channel inventories as closely as I could have. Just -- and we haven't seen much of an impact on channel inventories. I wouldn't expect that probably to be too much of a change until we get more certainty in terms of what the outlook looks like, probably later in 2021, in terms of building up inventories, just as an answer to that. I think more specifically, I think you covered the gamut. I think as we continue to really get out, we're really trying to demonstrate to folks the importance of our segments and the workflows associated with that. And you had so many questions around that. I think that's what we continue to try to emphasize, as Chuck and I have gotten out here since we announced the Vontier separation. So we'll continue to emphasize that. 12 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 07, 2020 / 6:55PM, FTV.N - Fortive Corp at UBS Global TMT Conference (Virtual) And I think the meaningful, or to use your words, the tangible results in terms of the changes and transformation of our portfolio, whether that be in recurring revenue, whether that be in gross margins or just the free cash flow that we're generating on the revenue base today, much higher than what we did, say, 4 years ago. I think all of those are in the very early innings of, and I think we continue to want to make sure that we tell that story. A lot has changed here in the last 12 months, not only around COVID, but in our business. So I think what we're focused on is what you were focused on, which is really trying to -- really try to get the questions out there and try to give people maybe more of an illustration of what that looks like for 2021. So I just want to thank. Markus, thanks for the opportunity today to talk. And just want to make sure, as we get here into the tail end of the year and into the holiday season, to wish everyone is safe and healthy holiday season. We appreciate everyone's support. We look forward to seeing -- hopefully maybe seeing everybody in person here some time in 2021. Markus M. H. Mittermaier - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division - Head & US Equity Research Analyst of Americas Electrical Equipment and Multi Industry Research Excellent. Thanks so much. And thank you. James A. Lico - Fortive Corporation - President, CEO & Director Thanks, Markus. Talk to you soon. Markus M. H. Mittermaier - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division - Head & US Equity Research Analyst of Americas Electrical Equipment and Multi Industry Research Thank you. Bye. DISCLAIMER Refinitiv reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes. In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized. THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES REFINITIV OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS. 2020, Refinitiv. All Rights Reserved. 13537773-2020-12-07T21:10:47.947 13 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 07, 2020 / 6:55PM, FTV.N - Fortive Corp at UBS Global TMT Conference (Virtual)
REFINITIV STREETEVENTS EDITED TRANSCRIPT ISBC.OQ - Investors Bancorp Inc. to Acquire 8 Berkshire Bank Branches - Conference Call EVENT DATE/TIME: DECEMBER 03, 2020 / 4:00PM GMT REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS Domenick A. Cama Investors Bancorp, Inc. - President, COO & Director Kevin Cummings Investors Bancorp, Inc. - Chairman & CEO P. Sean Burke Investors Bancorp, Inc. - Executive VP & CFO Richard S. Spengler Investors Bancorp, Inc. - Executive VP & Chief Lending Officer CONFERENCE CALL PARTICIPANTS Jared David Wesley Shaw Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, Research Division - MD & Senior Analyst Laurie Katherine Havener Hunsicker Compass Point Research & Trading, LLC, Research Division - MD & Research Analyst Mark Thomas Fitzgibbon Piper Sandler & Co., Research Division - MD & Head of FSG Research Matthew M. Breese Stephens Inc., Research Division - MD & Analyst PRESENTATION Operator Good morning, and welcome to the Investors Bancorp Investor and Analyst Call. (Operator Instructions) Please note this event is being recorded. We'll begin this morning's call with the company's standard forward-looking statement disclosure. On this call, representatives of Investors Bancorp, Inc. may make some forward-looking statements with respect to its financial position, results of operations and business. These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors, some of which are beyond Investors Bancorp's control, are difficult to predict and which can cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or forecast in these forward-looking statements. In last night's press release, the company included its safe harbor disclosure and refers you to that statement. That document is incorporated into this presentation. For a complete discussion of the certain risks and uncertainties affecting Investors Bancorp, please see the sections entitled, Risk Factors, Management Discussion and Analysis of Financial Conditions and Results of Operations set forth in Investors Bancorp's filings with the SEC. And now I'd like to turn the call over to Kevin Cummings, Chairman and CEO of Investors Bancorp. Kevin Cummings - Investors Bancorp, Inc. - Chairman & CEO Thank you, Ellis, and good morning, and welcome to our call. Last night, at the close of business, we announced the acquisition or branch acquisition of Berkshire Hills' New Jersey franchise and Pennsylvania franchise. It's 8 branches, about $640 million in deposits and $309 million in loans. We did extensive due diligence a lot of time on this transaction, and we feel we've had the correct box and the correct math for a very, very positive transaction. This will enhance our presence in Mercer County. We'll have the largest market share in Mercer County of any bank headquartered in New Jersey. And it continues -- it gives us 2 branches in Bucks County in Pennsylvania. So we're very excited about that, extending our Central Jersey presence. We also announced that because of the quarter and the blackout period in relation to our third quarter earnings and then being involved in this transaction, we're certainly announcing today our re-continuance of our stock buyback program. 2 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 03, 2020 / 4:00PM, ISBC.OQ - Investors Bancorp Inc. to Acquire 8 Berkshire Bank Branches - Conference Call And this emphasizes what we've been doing here traditionally. This is our 10th acquisition, the 4-pronged approach to managing our equity. We have a strong equity base. We have strong reserves. We're very confident in our credit review of this portfolio. And I think it's one of the tools, M&A and buybacks, to leverage the capital and improve shareholder returns. It's organic growth, dividends, which will be increasing -- we expect to increase at 8% next year. M&A transactions, this follows our expansion in the Nassau and Suffolk Counties with the Gold Coast transaction closed this year on April 3, and then continuation of the buyback program. We feel confident where we are today. And we look at this as a small, low-risk transaction where we can enhance our New Jersey presence and then move into Bucks County. I think it's, from a management point of view, similar to the Nassau and Suffolk deal last year that we announced in July, closed on April 3, in the height of the pandemic. It's -- it gives us some momentum going into next year and enhances our growth, improves our net interest margin. So we're very excited about it. And I think it's a low-risk transaction that we can execute on very effectively. Dom, I'll turn it over to you. Domenick A. Cama - Investors Bancorp, Inc. - President, COO & Director Thank you, Kevin. Really not a lot -- much more to add to Kevin's comments and just want to make a few comments. The reason that we liked the deal, obviously, is because it sat right within our market down in Mercer County. We plan to consolidate 4 of the 8 branches. If you look at the branch map, you can see that 4 of the branches sit right on top of our own branches. And also what we liked about the transaction is it gave us the opportunity to continue to reduce our reliance on wholesale funding. That's been a knock on the company that our loan-to-deposit ratio has been high. So we saw this as an opportunity to continue to pay off advances and wholesale borrowings and improve our deposit structure. I know there's some question also about the fact that this was the First Choice franchise that Berkshire bought a number of years ago. And for the most part, First Choice was a mortgage banking operation. But I have to say that during our due diligence, what we found is that Berkshire did a very good job trying to start to change the mix of the deposits. And you can see that they did change the mix of the deposits, on Page 3, that 18% of their deposits fell into the checking category, which is not too different than our own portfolio. So cost of funds was a little bit higher in the portfolio, but something that we thought we can handle. We like the idea that we can save about 50% of the expenses associated with the deal, and it really made a lot of sense to get involved here. As Kevin mentioned, we went through a pretty aggressive due diligence process on the loan side. As a matter of fact, we had representatives from both our lending group and our credit risk group go through the portfolio. And I have Richard Spengler here with me today. And Rich can be able -- he'll be able to answer questions about the portfolio in the detail. One other point that I wanted to make before really we can open it up for questions, because it's a small deal, and everything is right here, and that's the idea of the buybacks, right? We -- I know that there'll be some question about, "Well, why do this deal instead of doing buybacks?" And the fact is that we're going to do both. We'll continue to do both. Someone may say, "Well, why didn't you do buybacks prior to your earnings release?" Well, a few reasons. One is we were in blackout, right? So 2 weeks before we released earnings, before the end of the period, we were in blackout. Then once we announced earnings, we were in the midst of this deal, and that put us in a position of not being able to buy the stock back until we announced it. So I can assure you that we have buybacks built into our strategic plan here. We plan to execute on that going forward. We still think the stock is attractive at the level that it's trading at, despite the fact that it's up 17% or 18%. And so our investors should rest assured that we'll continue to execute on our strategic plan and make the best use of capital that we can going forward. So at this point, I think it may be best to open it up for questions. Because as I said, there's really not a lot here, and it's really more about the questions that you folks have on the deal. Operator? 3 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 03, 2020 / 4:00PM, ISBC.OQ - Investors Bancorp Inc. to Acquire 8 Berkshire Bank Branches - Conference Call QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS Operator (Operator Instructions) Our first question today comes from Mark Fitzgibbon with Piper Sandler. Mark Thomas Fitzgibbon - Piper Sandler & Co., Research Division - MD & Head of FSG Research The first question I had, probably it's for you, Sean. I wondered if you could give us some color on what the expense impact of this is likely to be when the transaction closed? P. Sean Burke - Investors Bancorp, Inc. - Executive VP & CFO Thanks, Mark. It's about a $3 million additional expense related to the branches that we plan to retain. So we do plan to consolidate around half the branches. So when all is said and done, we expect to have 4 branches in operation, and those will cost about $3 million of additional expense. There is some lending staff that comes along with it that we are retaining. And then the restructuring charges that we've outlined in the presentation, those will be incurred in 2021 as well, Mark. But those are more onetime nonrecurring expenses. Mark Thomas Fitzgibbon - Piper Sandler & Co., Research Division - MD & Head of FSG Research And when you say $3 million, you're talking on an annualized basis or quarterly? P. Sean Burke - Investors Bancorp, Inc. - Executive VP & CFO Annualized basis. Mark Thomas Fitzgibbon - Piper Sandler & Co., Research Division - MD & Head of FSG Research Annualized. Okay. Great. And then secondly, I was curious if you could update us on deferrals -- loan deferrals through the end of November, if you had those -- that data available? Domenick A. Cama - Investors Bancorp, Inc. - President, COO & Director Yes, Mark. The deferrals are at about the same place they were when we released earnings, which was just about $600 million. The one point that I wanted to make, though, on the deferrals is that approximately $400 million of the $600 million are paying interest on their loans. So while they've been deferred, they are -- they have agreed to pay interest on their loans. And that includes the hotel loans that we have on the balance sheet, which are about $240 million or so. Mark Thomas Fitzgibbon - Piper Sandler & Co., Research Division - MD & Head of FSG Research Okay. And then lastly, are these the kinds of transactions that we're likely to see you all do in coming quarters? Are there more of these kinds of branch-like transactions in your markets? Is that what we should expect from you folks over the next few quarters or so? 4 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 03, 2020 / 4:00PM, ISBC.OQ - Investors Bancorp Inc. to Acquire 8 Berkshire Bank Branches - Conference Call Domenick A. Cama - Investors Bancorp, Inc. - President, COO & Director Well, I'm not sure, Mark, if we can say specifically that there'll be more branch-type transactions. But I think one of the things that we always try to make sure of is that we not do anything that would significantly impact our capital levels and do something that's not right for shareholders. So the one thing that I think we can expect is that we will continue to look at doing more single and double type transactions, things that make sense, that have earn back that is less than 3 years and has minimal impact on tangible book value. Mark Thomas Fitzgibbon - Piper Sandler & Co., Research Division - MD & Head of FSG Research And I assume buybacks are not inclusive to that? Kevin Cummings - Investors Bancorp, Inc. - Chairman & CEO Buybacks are a big part of our strategy moving forward, Mark, and we want to emphasize that. Operator Our next question comes from Jared Shaw with Wells Fargo Securities. Jared David Wesley Shaw - Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, Research Division - MD & Senior Analyst I guess, maybe just following up on the last question with the buybacks. I guess, I was a little surprised that a branch deal would keep you out of the market for buybacks, given that's a relatively small deal. If there are other opportunities that come up like this, would that keep you out of the market? Or would you be able to do like a 10b5 plan or something like that to stay in as you're working through smaller deals or differentials? Domenick A. Cama - Investors Bancorp, Inc. - President, COO & Director Yes. It is a good point, Jared. Obviously, we did not have a 10b5-1 plan going into earnings. When we're in buyback mode, that is for the past 10 years, we have put 10b5-1 plans in place prior to earnings so that we can continue to buy back stock. But just given the environment and what it was going into earnings, we did not have a 10b5-1 plan in place. I can tell you that we asked the question specifically about general counsel, and he did a little research and he opined on the cautious side, saying it was probably best not to do any buybacks post the earnings announcement. So it's not like we didn't ask. We wanted to get it -- we wanted to do it, but the advice that we got was not to. Kevin Cummings - Investors Bancorp, Inc. - Chairman & CEO And Jared, to that point, we were -- even at the beginning of the quarter, like our period, we were trying to buy -- start buying some stock back, and we kind of missed that window. So that discussion was ongoing even in September. Jared David Wesley Shaw - Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, Research Division - MD & Senior Analyst Okay. All right. That's good color. And then you're talking about the positive impact to the loan-to-deposit ratio. Does that -- is this big enough to really change the long-term trajectory after that onetime benefit? Or is this really -- we should -- this will help restructure some of those borrowings? But the growth rate out of these branches, we shouldn't expect to be significantly different than the rest of the franchise? 5 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 03, 2020 / 4:00PM, ISBC.OQ - Investors Bancorp Inc. to Acquire 8 Berkshire Bank Branches - Conference Call Domenick A. Cama - Investors Bancorp, Inc. - President, COO & Director We're modeling about a 5% deposit growth in these branches, so not anything that's significant. A couple of things, though. You've got to like the idea that you're able take $600 million in deposits and split them into 4 different branches. You have to like that. We have to like the loan-to-deposit ratio, as you mentioned. Also it meant keeping a competitor out of our markets. We are the #1 bank now in that Trenton Mercer County market. And there were some other banks, I think, looking at the deal. And I'm not saying that's our #1 -- that was our #1 objective. But clearly, it has the benefit of keeping a competitor out of the market. The other point that we haven't made in this presentation is that we plan to open a branch in Princeton. We got approval from Princeton to open a branch right downtown, which has been not allowed for the last few years. And so that will continue to solidify our presence in this Mercer County market. Jared David Wesley Shaw - Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, Research Division - MD & Senior Analyst Okay. Great. And then just finally from me, I guess, how does this play into a broader theme -- the broader theme in the industry of reducing branches? Obviously, you've got to close half of the acquired runs. I mean, are there broader discussions going on around the branch footprint overall? And is there an opportunity to see additional cost saves on a bigger scale? P. Sean Burke - Investors Bancorp, Inc. - Executive VP & CFO Yes. We are -- actually we are looking at consolidating some branches in our markets in both in New Jersey and New York markets. And we have slated 10 branches for closure in 2021. Operator Our next question comes from Matthew Breese with Stephens, Inc. Matthew M. Breese - Stephens Inc., Research Division - MD & Analyst Just real quick. On the FHLB borrowings you're exiting, what's the cost of those? And then in the deck, you mentioned that you'll use liquidity to redeem. I'm assuming you're referring to cash? Or is it a mix of cash and securities? Domenick A. Cama - Investors Bancorp, Inc. - President, COO & Director The borrowing rate was a little bit over 2%. So we're using 53 basis point money to pay down the 2%. Matthew M. Breese - Stephens Inc., Research Division - MD & Analyst Okay. The other question I had was you mentioned in the release that you applied a 4.2% loan mark. Could you just walk us through the process of applying that mark? In this environment, it's obviously a little bit more challenging. And if there were any asset classes where the mark was heftier than others, what would you -- could you provide some color on that? 6 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 03, 2020 / 4:00PM, ISBC.OQ - Investors Bancorp Inc. to Acquire 8 Berkshire Bank Branches - Conference Call Domenick A. Cama - Investors Bancorp, Inc. - President, COO & Director Yes. I will give you some broad-based numbers, and then I'll ask Rich Spengler to get into some of the more, I'll call them, hot categories. But on the commercial real estate side, we applied about a 6% mark on the commercial real estate portfolio, about a 20% mark on the C&I portfolio and a 5% mark on the residential portfolio. So those are the broad-based marks. I think one of the other points that I wanted to make here, and I'm sure there'll be some questions about it, is what do you have in, like, from a NAICS Code perspective in accommodation. And of the portfolio, about $308 million in loans saw $21 million in accommodation and then $8 million in the arts, entertainment and recreation NAICS Codes. So those are the 2 biggest categories there. And on those, for example, on the accommodation loans, we have a 21% mark on those loans. And on the arts and entertainment, that next biggest bucket at $8 million, we applied a 55% mark on it. And we were actually prepared to give you a little more detail on what's in those categories, and I can have Rich Spengler speak to that. Matthew M. Breese - Stephens Inc., Research Division - MD & Analyst Yes, that would be helpful. Domenick A. Cama - Investors Bancorp, Inc. - President, COO & Director Rich, why don't you talk about the accommodation first? Richard S. Spengler - Investors Bancorp, Inc. - Executive VP & Chief Lending Officer So on the accommodation side, we see -- the total on the accommodation is just over $20 million, but it's made up of 19 loans. It's really 2 large loans, one of which is a hotel loan, it's a flagged hotel loan with a very strong liquid sponsor outside Philadelphia region. So that one is about $10 million. And then the second one is in New Jersey. It is actually a banquet and catering hall, once again, with a very strong liquid sponsor. We put those 2 together. They probably make up just under 90% of that $20 million total. After that, it falls off dramatically to $500,000, $300,000, $200,000. I think by the time we get 7 loans into, we're down under $100,000 a piece. So they get to be very small, a couple of restaurants, some takeout, limited service cafes, 3 or 4 bagel shops. I mean it really changes dramatically. So the majority of that is really made up of those 2 loans that do have very strong sponsorships and asset classes, which the hotel is actually doing fairly well right now at this point, considering where hotels are. Matthew M. Breese - Stephens Inc., Research Division - MD & Analyst Now these are combination loans. Just thinking about it, Dom, you gave me a 20% mark on C&I loans but a 6% mark on CRE. Are these combination loans in the CRE bucket or in the C&I portfolio? Domenick A. Cama - Investors Bancorp, Inc. - President, COO & Director C&I bucket. 7 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 03, 2020 / 4:00PM, ISBC.OQ - Investors Bancorp Inc. to Acquire 8 Berkshire Bank Branches - Conference Call Matthew M. Breese - Stephens Inc., Research Division - MD & Analyst Okay. That makes sense then. Okay. I appreciate that. Going back to expenses. Now you mentioned you're going to close 50% of the branches. What's the time frame on closure? Is that -- should we expect that day 1? Or is there going to be some lag? Domenick A. Cama - Investors Bancorp, Inc. - President, COO & Director As soon as we get approval. Matthew M. Breese - Stephens Inc., Research Division - MD & Analyst Okay. Okay. And then you mentioned an additional 10 branches being closed. What's the cost on those branches or an average cost we should use? Domenick A. Cama - Investors Bancorp, Inc. - President, COO & Director We budgeted about $3 million in expenses to be eliminated as a result of closing those branches. Matthew M. Breese - Stephens Inc., Research Division - MD & Analyst Okay. Last question is just you mentioned deal close in the first half of '21. Is there a month that you would kind of eye for modeling purposes? P. Sean Burke - Investors Bancorp, Inc. - Executive VP & CFO The reason that we said first half of '21 is because we think we can get the deal done in the first quarter. However, the Department of Banking in Massachusetts can take up to 90 days. So that's one of the reasons why we changed it from first quarter to first half. So it's a small deal. It's mostly in New Jersey. I would expect that the Department of Banking in Massachusetts would not spend too much time on it. But -- so we're hoping first quarter, but to be safe, we use that first half. Operator Our next question comes from Laurie Hunsicker with Compass Point. Laurie Katherine Havener Hunsicker - Compass Point Research & Trading, LLC, Research Division - MD & Research Analyst Just wanted to stay on the loans, the $308 million loans. Sean or Rich, can either one of you just fill us in, is there any leisure in that C&I book? Is there any specific Firestone exposure in that book? P. Sean Burke - Investors Bancorp, Inc. - Executive VP & CFO No. Laurie Katherine Havener Hunsicker - Compass Point Research & Trading, LLC, Research Division - MD & Research Analyst Okay, great. And then of that, so (inaudible). Is that correct? 8 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 03, 2020 / 4:00PM, ISBC.OQ - Investors Bancorp Inc. to Acquire 8 Berkshire Bank Branches - Conference Call P. Sean Burke - Investors Bancorp, Inc. - Executive VP & CFO I'm sorry, Laurie? Laurie Katherine Havener Hunsicker - Compass Point Research & Trading, LLC, Research Division - MD & Research Analyst So I'm sorry, that's no, there's no leisure and no Firestone exposure in that book? Domenick A. Cama - Investors Bancorp, Inc. - President, COO & Director Well, there is a part in entertainment. So under leisure, we do have -- we have a golf course loan, country club loan. I think we would consider that to be leisure, I guess, but there's no firestone exposure. Laurie Katherine Havener Hunsicker - Compass Point Research & Trading, LLC, Research Division - MD & Research Analyst Perfect. Okay. And then can you just tell us, of the $308 million, how much is on deferral? Domenick A. Cama - Investors Bancorp, Inc. - President, COO & Director It's about $2 million to $3 million. Debit loans, 5 residential, 2 commercial. Operator That concludes our question-and-answer session. And I'd like to turn the call back over to management for any closing remarks. Kevin Cummings - Investors Bancorp, Inc. - Chairman & CEO Okay. Thank you. Well, first of all, I appreciate your time on the call today. I think we have a deal that has attractive transaction pricing, a great internal rate of return. We're bullish on the buybacks. And we did extensive due diligence, and we feel we have a handle around the risk exposures. It gives us great momentum. It's going to excite some of our New Jersey employees, because we did the New York deal last time. And we think it's a good, safe transaction and moves us into '21 with some momentum. I want to thank you for your participation. And if we don't speak before the holidays, everyone have a Merry Christmas, Happy Hanukkah and a great and healthy New Year. Be safe out there. Thank you. Operator The conference has now concluded. Thank you for attending today's presentation. You may now disconnect. 9 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 03, 2020 / 4:00PM, ISBC.OQ - Investors Bancorp Inc. to Acquire 8 Berkshire Bank Branches - Conference Call DISCLAIMER Refinitiv reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes. In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized. THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES REFINITIV OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS. 2020, Refinitiv. All Rights Reserved. 13537775-2020-12-10T17:59:53.347 10 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 03, 2020 / 4:00PM, ISBC.OQ - Investors Bancorp Inc. to Acquire 8 Berkshire Bank Branches - Conference Call
REFINITIV STREETEVENTS EDITED TRANSCRIPT CRWD.OQ - CrowdStrike Holdings Inc at UBS Global TMT Conference (Virtual) EVENT DATE/TIME: DECEMBER 08, 2020 / 5:05PM GMT REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS Burt W. Podbere CrowdStrike Holdings, Inc. - CFO CONFERENCE CALL PARTICIPANTS Fatima Aslam Boolani UBS Investment Bank, Research Division - Associate Director and Equity Research Associate Technology-Software PRESENTATION Fatima Aslam Boolani - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division - Associate Director and Equity Research Associate Technology-Software All right. I think we're rocking and rolling. Well, to those of you who's joined us, good morning, good afternoon to Day 2 of the UBS Global TMT Conference. I'm your host for this fireside chat with CrowdStrike, Fatima Boolani, software analyst on the tech team here. I am thrilled to be hosting and sharing this virtual stage with Burt Podbere, CFO of CrowdStrike. Thanks for joining us for this chat today. Burt W. Podbere - CrowdStrike Holdings, Inc. - CFO It's great. It's great to be here, Fatima, such a pleasure. QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS Fatima Aslam Boolani - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division - Associate Director and Equity Research Associate Technology-Software Excellent. Well, I know I've got a lot to talk about and a lot to ask you, so let's jump right in. But look, you're coming fresh off your third quarter results in what has been a remarkably unique year for cloud enterprise software companies, dare I say, one of the more obvious things. So I think it would be beneficial for us to just have a brief overview of the operational and financial highlights that you're just coming out of closing Q3 and maybe contextualizing these observations against the last 9 months in which you've navigated the company through the pandemic. Burt W. Podbere - CrowdStrike Holdings, Inc. - CFO Sure. Great place to start. So first, here's the overall backdrop, which is, we currently are in a very heightened threat environment. That's number one. Number two, we've got, for us, favorable competitive environment for us, and we'll get into more detail later, I'm sure. And the third one that's interesting is, we've got these strong secular tailwinds that have been in our favor. And what does that mean, right? It means that, number one is security is really mission-critical. And I don't care who you are, right? That's number one. Number two is, we're in this movement of digital transformation. And for us, when I think about digital transformation, when I think about what's happening, that was happening even pre-COVID. But I think what COVID did, it acted as a catalyst to spark the kindling that was already there. And I think that the digital transformation, it's an opportunity of this generation, right? This is not something that's here today and it's just going to fizzle out in the next few quarters. This digital transformation is one of those rare events that happens in a community, and we're right there. And of course, importantly, for us, as a prerequisite for a successful digital transformation, you need security transformation. And of course, that's where we come in. And as I mentioned in terms of the secular trends, there's a very healthy competitive environment for us today that we live in. And then about us specifically for the quarter, right? With all that in the backdrop, we absolutely had a record quarter and a record year-to-date. And some of the numbers that are out there, we've got over $900 million in ARR. That's an 81% year-over-year growth rate at our scale, so really excited about that. 2 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 08, 2020 / 5:05PM, CRWD.OQ - CrowdStrike Holdings Inc at UBS Global TMT Conference (Virtual) We've got over 8,400 customers, subscription customers today. That's great for us. But remember, you take some of our, the legacy competitors, any one of them could have had over 100,000, maybe between 100,000 and 200,000 customers. So we think that, yes, we've done well today, but there's still a tremendous amount to go. But I think what's key with that 8,400 customers that we have is that we're now showing our growing leadership in the marketplace today. And I think that's fundamentally key as customers are looking for those folks that they can rely on, trusted advisers, as you will. And that's us. And we see that. We don't take that for granted. You've got to earn leadership. You've got to show strong execution, right, on the tech side, being customer focused on making it easy for customers. And then once you make it easy for customers to come in and buy, you want to make it easy for them to deploy and then easy for them to manage, right? And we think we've done a really good job in all of that. And then finally, my final point, which is one of my favorites, is that we've shown really, really strong unit economics. And that just goes to show that we're a very well-run company. We have tremendous growth, at scale, but we're also doing it with an eye to efficiency. And I think that's key for us to continue our leadership position. Fatima Aslam Boolani - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division - Associate Director and Equity Research Associate Technology-Software I think that's a really important point vis-a-vis the operating leverage in the margin expansion path in the model. But let's kind of pin in that because I think it's important and I'd really like to come back to that. Maybe just staying high level and sort of demand patterns and demand complexion. So clearly, you've experienced very strong demand over the course of the pandemic as some of the secular forces have really intensified, widening attack surfaces, accelerating cloud adoption. And so appreciate the analogy of digital transformation, really putting the fire in the belly of the CIOs and CSOs to make some changes. But I'm curious if you were to parse out sort of the durability of that demand, how would you frame for investors who perceive some of this demand to have been pulled forward from '21 and '22 and demand that is potentially episodic or turn susceptible, if you will? Burt W. Podbere - CrowdStrike Holdings, Inc. - CFO Yes. So I think, big picture, as I mentioned, I think that what's happened to the world with the pandemic kind of was a spark to something that was already there, right? The strength we are seeing today is about digital and security transformation and our growing leadership, as I mentioned. I think, for us, when we talk to CSOs and CISOs in the old days, they would talk about this refresh, right? And that usually was about speeds and feeds. And that's kind of now moved away from that to, okay, we really saw some weakness, right, in our environment. This whole, the old perimeter is kind of, there's an acceleration of the evaporation of that old perimeter. We need to think about a different architecture. And I think that with this digital transformation and hence security transformation, that's where we fit in. That's where I think the world is going to. And it's kind of like, you've let the genie out of the bottle. You're not going to put it back in, right? There's this movement towards, how do we do things in a more cost-effective way? How do we do things with a different architecture because the old way still had a tremendous amount of breaches? How do we be able to find the vendor who's able to satisfy all those demands that we have on us today seamlessly? And that's us. For us, when we think about a customer, their ability to keep their, we call it castle, if you will, behind this moat kind of just, that's last decade almost, right? And so when you move into people kind of being able to log in from different places, that perimeter has just expanded in a way that really lends itself to what we're talking about, which is this digital transformation. And so for us, I think that there's a tremendous runway right ahead of us. I don't think this is episodic at all. I think that most people would agree that, no, this is probably one of those trends that's going to go through the next decade and beyond. I mean it's kind of one of those things that happens once in a generation. We feel that we're here. We feel we have the right tech that lends itself to this. We were built in the cloud. This allows us to be able to scale rapidly and be able to offer customers a solution quickly. They can be up and running and time to value immediately. So we have all those things that make this all really important. And I think that a lot of this you can see in the data. Look at the numbers for us in terms of customer adoption, right? Over 60% for 4 or more modules, over 40% for 5 or more, and over 20% over 6 or more of our modules. There are companies out there that if they had 20% or more on 3 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 08, 2020 / 5:05PM, CRWD.OQ - CrowdStrike Holdings Inc at UBS Global TMT Conference (Virtual) their second module adoption would be off to the races and waving the checkered flag. For us to have it in our sixth, that just goes to show you how the ease of use of the deployment for us. And that's how I see the environment today. Fatima Aslam Boolani - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division - Associate Director and Equity Research Associate Technology-Software I want to use that as a jumping off point thinking about right place, right technology and this notion of right time. And earlier in the year, you were very astute in being responsive to customer needs with respect to more flexible licensing, just making the platform easier to access, consume and deploy. So with that in mind, with some of the burst licensing and trial licensing initiatives that you undertook earlier in the year, I'm curious what the uptake and conversion patterns have been there? And maybe more importantly, how that has translated into some of the increased module adoption that you just alluded to within the base? Burt W. Podbere - CrowdStrike Holdings, Inc. - CFO Yes. No, so obviously, that was a really troubling time for the world. And for us at that time, it was more about helping and partnering with our customers and potential customers to keep them stable and protected during this, call it, transition period, right? Unfortunately, we were in that situation -- the world was in a situation where customers were scrambling, and we just wanted to be there for them. It wasn't really this everlasting period that we thought we would be in. It really talked about an emergency buy at the time. And I think the key point about that is, it's well behind us, right? There were a lot of emergency buys. And now we're in this period where it's post that, right? And I think we've been post that for a while now where customers are now moving into this digital transformation that we just talked about. And we're seeing that throughout the buys. Some of those programs that we had earlier were certainly helpful and customers really appreciated what we did. And that was kind of like a launch thing to kind of help people along. But that really was a period of time type of program. We've moved way beyond that at this point. So I'm having trouble hearing you. Fatima Aslam Boolani - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division - Associate Director and Equity Research Associate Technology-Software I was on mute, classic, classic move. Maybe doubling down on how you think about your market opportunity, particularly, in what I would refer to as your traditional endpoint protection realm. You talked a little bit about legacy vendors and the old guard cohort that just has not shown up with the right technology. And so just with respect to the estate that's out there with some of these legacy providers, can you talk about how much runway you have for share gain within that cohort? And frankly, the type of endpoint estate coverage that still remains from a more traditional endpoint sense? Burt W. Podbere - CrowdStrike Holdings, Inc. - CFO Yes, sure. So first, with the backdrop, I think that what we just talked about in terms of the threat landscape being what it is today, really much broader and much deeper than it ever was. I think that we talked a little bit about the runway, I mean, us having 8,400 customers. I mean it's great, don't get me wrong. We're really proud of having 8,400 customers. But as I said, that pales in comparison to some of the legacy vendors, right? I think that what we've seen over the last few years are those legacy vendors donate share. It was really hard for them to redo their entire business. They had a sizable business, right? So you have the classic innovator's dilemma, right? You don't want to put all that away and go somewhere else because you've got this business over here that's meaningful. So it's really, really, really hard for them to make that change. Whereas us and the way that we've built our platform and the way that we're securing our position through data and having this data moat, I think it's allowed us to kind of put up the results that we talked about earlier. And I think that you just have to look at those numbers and see, okay, well, what's happening, right? CrowdStrike is really making the move in the leadership role in this space and really coming at it with innovation, data. I think today, in today's world, I think of data as oil was back in the '70s and '80s, right? Data is that new commodity which everybody is after. 4 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 08, 2020 / 5:05PM, CRWD.OQ - CrowdStrike Holdings Inc at UBS Global TMT Conference (Virtual) The good news is, it's not just about data, it's about the use of the data, right? And we figured that out with our Threat Graph. And so that's how I think about the demand for our product is continuing. We've got a lot of runway with respect to the legacy vendor share. And the good news for investors is that, that market is pretty well defined, right? It's growing at X percent and you throw in cloud, right, and you're kind of like, okay, well, that's kind of even undefined to a certain degree. We've tried to define it. But for others, they're still trying to find it, and it's just showing this tremendous opportunity that's still out there for us. Fatima Aslam Boolani - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division - Associate Director and Equity Research Associate Technology-Software Maybe just to put a finer point on the traditional endpoint security opportunity with physical servers and physical endpoints. I suspect in the competitive bake offs that you all have been in, there are some sense of, hey, this Fortune 500 client has an estate of 100,000 endpoints, whether that's servers, whatever mix of servers and endpoints. I'm curious if you can speak to or have a sense of the number of devices that CrowdStrike is deployed in today and what that sort of theoretical maximum could be, especially against the backdrop that's changing with more and more devices coming online and more and more sort of computing devices coming on networks? Burt W. Podbere - CrowdStrike Holdings, Inc. - CFO Yes. No, absolutely, it's a great question. And I think you've hit it on the head with respect to the proliferation of all these different devices, all these different workloads, all these different applications. There's an endless stream really, right? So at some point, they all need to be protected, right? And look, we can't do it all today when you think about IoT. There are many different avenues to go into an IoT. We do some of it with mobile, but there's this whole plethora of different IoT areas which we can focus in on. And you could pick one, right? It could be anything from cars or cell towers or whatever it is, right? And for us... Fatima Aslam Boolani - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division - Associate Director and Equity Research Associate Technology-Software There's Internet-connected beer kegs now, not that those will join the corporate network. Burt W. Podbere - CrowdStrike Holdings, Inc. - CFO Right. Right. It's kind of like -- that's why we get so excited and are passionate about what we're doing today, is that we see this never-ending cycle of new things coming up that need to be protected. And we're there. We're there on the traditional endpoints or workloads that we've talked about. And I think that has a tremendous amount of runway. And then there's this unknown runway with all the new stuff that's coming out, whether it's in the cloud, whether it's an IoT, whatever it is, it's just a tremendous amount of opportunity for us. Fatima Aslam Boolani - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division - Associate Director and Equity Research Associate Technology-Software So just using that as a segue, you've been very vocal about how limited the traditional definition of endpoints are and it's really sort of evolving into this more encompassing definition of a workload, right? So it seems the historical definition of endpoint has been rather incomplete. And so the traditional notion and the addressable market for the endpoint is indeed limited at least in the way you're seeing the trends develop in the marketplace. So how are you helping break the mold here? And what are some of the implications for you competitively and from a budgetary access standpoint as you broaden this definition of endpoint? Burt W. Podbere - CrowdStrike Holdings, Inc. - CFO Yes, right. So obviously, we're here, obviously, to stop a breach. And a breach can come in so many different forms. And so what we try to do is when we go into an environment, we'll take a look at what the customer is trying to protect, how they're working today, right? We've got folks 5 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 08, 2020 / 5:05PM, CRWD.OQ - CrowdStrike Holdings Inc at UBS Global TMT Conference (Virtual) that, take the old brick-and-mortar type companies. They still have cloud applications. And so we still need to protect those. And so when we think about going to market, specifically against some of the competition, we come in with this notion of value selling, right, which is basically, we come in and we're trying to help customers consolidate, save money and at the same time, have better efficacy with respect to protection. And the good news is, each customer has a different security profile, right, depending on the space you're in, depending on the applications you have, depending on the tools that are there. But I can tell you, the vast majority of all of these companies have multiple tool sets. And managing multiple tool sets that sometimes don't integrate together. Or if they do, it's not really seamless. And so our role is to come in and show customers how it can be seamless. How we can show you a better way to be able to manage your environment at a very attractive price, actually much less than -- up to 3x less in terms of your overall environment of what you have today, and it all being seamless. You've got one UI where you can flash out different screens on what you're looking at. Even for me, who was the CFO, when I go in and I look at our UI, I get excited, great design, really quickly understand all the dashboards really quickly. And so if I can do it, just imagine what an IT professional would see or a security professional will see. So when we think about this proliferation of the devices and whatever customer were looking at, all of a sudden, we've got unique opportunities across the board. And then when you think about how we build the tech and how easy it is to explain and how easy it is to sell all the things that I talked about in terms of taking friction, you're in a place that's very unique compared to some of our competitors. And the competitors are finding it hard to compete against us, right? I mean it's a daunting proposition when you've got a company that has been built with this technology that it's built on the cloud. It's built cloud-native. It's got all these data. It's seamless. It's easy to use and simple to manage. And when you're going up against that, it's quite challenging, right? I don't care who you are. And then you layer on the innovation. You layer on a company that is so customer focused. And that just snowballs into something unique and interesting. And we're in a space that is being disrupted, and we think about ourselves as being one of the disruptors. And then the beauty of what we're doing is it's not only just focused on what you've talked about, which is just the traditional endpoint or workload, it goes beyond, right? It goes into the cloud. It goes into the IoT spaces. And so then you can really start to see, wow, this company can really do a lot of good and has a lot of additional runway. Fatima Aslam Boolani - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division - Associate Director and Equity Research Associate Technology-Software Burt, just around this concept of workload protection. And again, the sloughing off sort of the traditional definition of endpoint because now you're in the cloud and you've got a cloud workload. Frankly, yes, the space has picked up momentum. But the reality is, there are several peers of yours in maybe different facets of the security landscape that are talking about this concept of cloud workload protection. How do you think about those other rivals in the space? And secondarily, necessarily some of the servers that would have physically been spun up in a data center are maybe now the ones migrating and being born in the cloud. So how do you manage that competitive dynamic in terms of the space becoming very noisy and sort of gold rush and land grab with a lot of intensity? And secondarily, some elements cannibalization because if you're spinning up a server in the cloud doesn't necessarily mean you're going to do the same thing on-premise. How do you think about that? Burt W. Podbere - CrowdStrike Holdings, Inc. - CFO Yes. So the good news for us is that this cloud workload protections and certainly, cloud protection is wide open, right? No one really has been able to go and claim that. I think 1% of cloud applications has been protected today. And so for us, the only real way to service all of that is by a platform. Like if you've got point solutions, you're never going to be able to keep up. And if you're trying to stitch things together by buying disparate technologies and are then offering some sort of hodgepodge of different techs, that becomes very problematic. 6 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 08, 2020 / 5:05PM, CRWD.OQ - CrowdStrike Holdings Inc at UBS Global TMT Conference (Virtual) And so for us, we seamlessly fit in with our platform to be able to go and service our customers in ways that really our competitors cannot. I mean, we've been using some of this tech in our own cloud for years, right? And so now we're commercializing it and making it GA for our customers. And that's where it stems from, right? So it's not like, oh, we like the world sees -- in security, the world sees this opportunity in cloud. And we're going to go build it and we're going to come up with something flashier and better. That's hard. And we've already been doing it for years, right? So now when the world has come to us, we're ready, whereas others are still playing catch up. And the legacy guys, they're really not there. And some of the next-gen folks, the slideware looks good, really hard to put it into use and really hard to scale. And so when you put all... Fatima Aslam Boolani - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division - Associate Director and Equity Research Associate Technology-Software I like that you drink your own champagnes. That's good to hear. I know just along these lines, you've recently given us some very interesting metrics around some staggering metrics, 1 billion containers protected per day. And that's a 14x multiple relative to what you saw just months ago, 20% of your server fleet is protected in the public cloud. How do you think about the growth in these metrics? And then most importantly, putting some numbers around sizing in terms of what the dollar-based opportunity could look like for you in the workload protection arena? Burt W. Podbere - CrowdStrike Holdings, Inc. - CFO Yes. So we're early days, so we're excited about that. And we see the TAM, if you just compare where things are today and you go out 3 years and you listen to the IDCs of the world, and they talk about what percentage of overall spend should be in the security pot. I mean it's a pretty big number, right? We talk about a 10x from where it is today to where it could be in 2023. And just by using, I would call it, numbers that have been floating around in that 5% to 10% range. And you get to a very meaningful TAM in the teens of billions, right? And so when you think about that, you're kind of like -- and that's only in the next 3 years type of thing. And you think about where we're going beyond that and there are all kinds of -- there's all kinds of data to talk about that. I mean we're in a really good spot to go and capture all, right, or a part of that, all of the available TAM, we can go after. And so when we think about how we built the platform and all the different vectors that we have, whether it's in security or whether it's IT or whatever it is, we really positioned ourselves well to go to a customer and say, hey, we know what we do well, and we cover so much of your security estate and IT estate, use us as a pillar. And it makes a lot of sense for a lot of companies. And certainly, when we think about their cloud and what's happened today in the world, they get excited because there's nobody else who can really offer that and in a way that we do it. And that's a huge differentiator. And when we think about how all the work that we've done over the last decade to make this thing flighted in a certain way to be able to deploy quickly and being able to give the visibility that customers want. That just didn't happen last year, right? That happened a decade ago when George Kurtz, our founder, he saw that opportunity. And he said, look, we're going to be patient. Back in 2011, cloud was not in vogue. I can assure you of that. And now you're seeing, obviously, it is. And we were flighting all this work a decade ago and getting it all ready. And that's why we think we're -- that's why we really do think we've been at the beginning -- we're at the beginning of the journey, right? And that's why we think we have a long way to go with respect to where we can go and capture a bigger part of this ever-growing market. Fatima Aslam Boolani - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division - Associate Director and Equity Research Associate Technology-Software So I can appreciate that maybe there's a little bit of elbow grease involved because cloud is still so new for so many organizations and how to even protect cloud assets. But what I want to drill in on is the fact that the Falcon platform has also feature product expansion and enhancement on maybe some of the more known and well understood security disciplines like vulnerability management, like IT asset management and hygiene. So maybe on sort of the earmarked line items of spend that you don't have to spend as much time convincing organizations to allocate dollars to, how should investors think about your opportunity and ability to unlock incremental spend in those maybe more well-defined and traditionally in well-known areas like VM and asset management? 7 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 08, 2020 / 5:05PM, CRWD.OQ - CrowdStrike Holdings Inc at UBS Global TMT Conference (Virtual) Burt W. Podbere - CrowdStrike Holdings, Inc. - CFO Yes. That's a great question. So right, it goes back to the premise that we collect data once and use it many times, right? So it starts there. And once we've established that, which we believe we have, then you can start unlocking additional kind of use cases. Vulnerability being one of them. This is where our founder grew up. He grew up in that space with a company called Foundstone, understands that space, basically defined that space back in the day. And then obviously, he went on to McAfee where he was the Global CTO. All those fundamental blocks came and prepared him for this, for CrowdStrike. And so when he set out and when he put together the strategy and the plan, all those things came together. And so vulnerability management was near and dear to his heart. He said, we're already collecting the data, we'll be able to kind of do more. Same with the IT hygiene, we already collect the data. We're already seeing things that others don't, including rogue systems and what have you. So CIOs get excited about the application and the performance that we are able to provide. And then when you really break it down, when you think about where the world is going in terms of the platform and how they can use us. There are 3 spots, right? There's endpoint workload protection, which we're clearly in there, and we've already talked about some of the other applications, the adjacencies. Number two is identity, right, so identity is one of those spots where we took our first meaningful step. We purchased a company called Preempt, which is in the zero trust space. And then the third one, I think, is data protection, right? So this is the next or the next gen of what I call DLP, data loss prevention. And that space, I think, is as ripe as antivirus was 10 years ago, right? It's all the brittle policies that are in place, all the Band-Aids put together to kind of make that thing work, it really happened, right? And so we use some of our technology internally to have a form of DLP or data protection. It's not been commercialized yet. We see an opportunity there, whether it's us coming out with a new module or we buy one or we put it in the store. We see that as an opportunity. So when you put those 3 things together, you're kind of meaningful in this space. And it's a big space. And as we have gained traction and gained share, we see those 3 areas as, again, additional opportunity for us. Fatima Aslam Boolani - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division - Associate Director and Equity Research Associate Technology-Software I want to shift to go-to-market, blocking and tackling on the sales and sales management side. So as we think about your pipeline, we've discussed a number of opportunities you have for new customer acquisition, the runway you have there. We've talked about the entire Falcon platform that's still relatively underpenetrated. You've got a family of 16 and only 1/4 of your customers have 6, right? So there's expansion vector. And then you certainly have the renewal vector because of the subscription business. So taking these 3 pieces, how does this manifest in your pipeline? And frankly, how it underpins the way you forecast and guide and communicate your outlook? Burt W. Podbere - CrowdStrike Holdings, Inc. - CFO Yes. It's a great question. So when you think about our pipeline, so I'll first start with saying, on our last earnings call, we mentioned that we have our strongest pipeline in company history. That goes to all the things we've really been talking about. Everything that kind of that fits together. So we see certainly an increase in demand and this overall desire to replace current vendors in an environment. We talked about the strong secular tailwinds that are with us, whether it be that security is mission-critical or the fact that digital transformation is here. So all of those things have contributed to the fact that we've got this record pipeline. I think, for us, when we look at both renewals and new logos, when we go after new, we call it net new ARR, it can come from anywhere, right? So we think about net new on our renewal base, right? So we've got a base of folks that have a set of modules and they spend a certain amount with us. And we've already seen the trend on module adoption that we talked about. And then we look. And so we think that we have a tremendous runway. We're still early in the day. So both of those vectors are important to us. And we pay the same to our sales reps for net new ARR. We pay. If they bring in a new logo, we pay the same as a net new expansion within an existing customer. And so long as we continue to bring out new 8 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 08, 2020 / 5:05PM, CRWD.OQ - CrowdStrike Holdings Inc at UBS Global TMT Conference (Virtual) modules and so long as we're creating value for our customers and showing how they're going to be able to save with us and get more. I mean that's what's driving that pipeline. And for us, I think when I look at where we are today in terms of being able to go after new adjacencies, it's kind of like AV was in the '90s, right? I mean there's this whole breadth of opportunity for customers to be better in terms of their protection against breaches. And using us as a pillar is one of those ways. And that's why we've seen the pipeline expand the way it has. Fatima Aslam Boolani - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division - Associate Director and Equity Research Associate Technology-Software Maybe to round out the thoughts around the go-to-market engine and the pipeline. Just this notion of verticalization in your sales organization, where are you? Is this a top priority? What are some of the maybe most or highest ROI opportunities for you to even consider verticalizing some sort of a motion within your sales org? Burt W. Podbere - CrowdStrike Holdings, Inc. - CFO I mean, not surprisingly, we've got different lanes of sales folks for different sizes of customers. We have enterprise. So you've got the field reps that are going after the large enterprise customers, then we've got mid-market and SMB. A lot of it in the SMB and mid-market, you're seeing a lot of great traction from our trial to pay, right? You can come in, look at it, and we have folks that kind of see that movement and can come in and offer help where needed or ultimately having customers buy. And then even on the enterprise side, when you think about the trial to pay, you can have somebody in a large org kind of test it out, look at it, love it and then escalate it, the next thing you know, it's an enterprise sale. So we're that. Traditionally, we do service the swim lanes, but we have been able to kind of carve out certain areas in terms of, you call them vectors or you can call them industries, where we think that there's an opportunity in health care, for example, right? We think about that as a couple of reps who really understand that market. And because we're large enough now, we can have specific focus in on that or state and local, right, on the public side, right? We have folks that have grown up in that space and can add value and understand how state and local purchase, right? And so we are big enough to kind of take our big toe and put it in the water to really maximize the efficiency and the opportunity that we have within a certain vector. So that's exciting for us, right? And the good news is, we're there. The market's there. We're there. And we're able to leverage those unit economics that we talked about earlier to go out and get it, right? So now that we know, we've been very focused on efficiency in the sales and marketing orgs. Now we can zoom in, in new areas and new territories. And it might be less efficient at first, but then can catapult to be efficient later on. So that's how I think about that. Fatima Aslam Boolani - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division - Associate Director and Equity Research Associate Technology-Software Burt, that's a good segue into the next area that I want to talk to you about in the last 5 minutes, just sort of rounding out the unit economics discussion and conversation, so just margin leverage in the business. The leverage that you've demonstrated year-to-date while continuing to grow OpEx, in spite of growing OpEx, 40% to 50%, has been pretty impressive. So other than revenue outperformance, what specifically is driving the leverage in the business? And maybe if you can spell out for us the incremental investment priorities that are on your punch list for 2021? Burt W. Podbere - CrowdStrike Holdings, Inc. - CFO Yes. A great way to kind of put it all together at the end. I think we are clearly excited about the opportunities in the marketplace, let's just frame it that way. We think that we have a larger opportunity than most because of all the coverage we have. And I think, number one, when you think about the operating levers, we can start with sales and marketing. I think that it's not only the magic number that we look at. It's LTV-to-CAC and rule of 40. Folks can do their own work on where we are on some of those. And they're all kind of where we would want them to be. 9 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 08, 2020 / 5:05PM, CRWD.OQ - CrowdStrike Holdings Inc at UBS Global TMT Conference (Virtual) Actually, they're all telling us the same thing, you need to invest, right? And yes, we've had great top line growth at scale, but those metrics are telling us, put your pedal to the metal and keep going. And we are. And some of those areas that we think about in terms of investment, we've talked about one, which could be zooming in on a certain sector and adding headcount just in those focus areas. The other one is certainly emerging markets, right? We see an opportunity to become more global. And sometimes when you go into emerging markets, the efficiency is not there to begin with. And then you would gain efficiency as you build out those markets, so we want to continue to do that. And I think what the answer to investors really is, we are going to continue to aggressively invest in the business. We've got that opportunity to do that today. We see not only opportunities to invest in those areas. But R&D, that's another big one where we think we have an opportunity to aggressively invest even greater in terms of the percentages in terms of where we think we're going to go in S&M and G&A. We think R&D is the area where we can -- I'm not going to use the word double down because it's not a true double, but you get the idea, right? Kind of like really aggressively invest in the R&D opportunity because it's there. It's there for us to build on the platform, create more adjacencies, create more value to our customers. And because we've got a platform, we get the leverage in that area too, right? So we've already built out that fundamental, that foundational layer where you can build on top of. And so there's going to be leverage in R&D as well. And then finally, I'm sure your investors are interested in the gross margins that we've been able to post over the years. You remember the days when they were in the 30% range before we were covered. Fatima Aslam Boolani - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division - Associate Director and Equity Research Associate Technology-Software I sure do. How far we've come. Burt W. Podbere - CrowdStrike Holdings, Inc. - CFO Yes. I can speak an hour on that one alone. But we're really happy about where we've come from. Obviously, module expansion, this is the big one where every new module on top of the first is virtually pure margin. So now we've got 16, so you can see how we're gaining leverage in gross margin in that as well as on the operations side. We have a great partner in AWS. We built the business on AWS. We did see opportunities to create our own private cloud and still continue to leverage AWS where needed and our own private cloud where needed, and that clearly has helped. And then optimizing both, right, on how to continue to invest in both AWS and hosting our own private center, data center. So I think those things also helped. And there are a bunch of other things that helped along the way, but those are the big ones, and that's provided where we are today in terms of our gross margins, really proud as a CFO, really, really proud of the partnerships I have with my colleagues in engineering and data ops. And it's been a great partnership. As a matter fact, we actually invite those folks into our monthly close meetings, which is unique, I think, right, to get their perspective on what additional efficiencies, where can we spend more and get more? What does that investment thesis look like? And I don't know if some of your investors are golfers, but the golf analogy I like to use is going from a score of 110 to 100, well, okay, you can get there. But going from a score to 70 to 69, that is really hard. And so that's where we're at, right, with our gross margins where we are today. How do you get that next level? We've already grabbed a lot of the low-hanging fruit. Now we've got to really work hard to continue to show expansion. And we do see expansion opportunities even where we are today. Fatima Aslam Boolani - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division - Associate Director and Equity Research Associate Technology-Software And just the last question for me around sales and marketing. Clearly, a unique year because you haven't had sales folks jump on a plane to go see clients. So there's an element of maybe depressed levels of travel and expense that are maybe transiently benefiting you this year. I'm curious from a loose time frame perspective when you're even planning for some of that to come back? And secondarily, we've been doing this long enough remotely, do you see and do you believe there are any structural changes that are actually going to stick in the way you go to market such that you could actually even exercise greater efficiency from your sales and marketing investments? 10 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 08, 2020 / 5:05PM, CRWD.OQ - CrowdStrike Holdings Inc at UBS Global TMT Conference (Virtual) Burt W. Podbere - CrowdStrike Holdings, Inc. - CFO Great question to end. So yes, we have seen some level, obviously, levels of decreased spend on travel. It's in that mid-single millions figure per quarter type of thing. But I think that whenever we come out of this, whenever that is, hopefully, it's next year. And hopefully, it's mid next year, fingers crossed. The way that we are looking at travel and meeting with customers is going to be very different than the way it was, right? And we're going to be very judicious because we've seen the success without it to a certain extent. We do recognize that you can't continue just the way it is because there's going to be customers that want to see face to face some of the vendors. So we know we're going to have to do some of that. But we're going to be putting -- I'm a CFO and there are many CFOs like me out there. You see this as an opportunity to bring in greater discipline on the travel within the company, not just in sales and marketing but across the board. And so I'm no different. I see this as an opportunity to change the way we think about travel. And we will use it, but we will obviously use it more judiciously, and it will be highest and best use of our travel dollars. I'm not saying it wasn't before, but I think that there's opportunity to do better. Fatima Aslam Boolani - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division - Associate Director and Equity Research Associate Technology-Software Fair enough. Well, we'll cap it there. Time flies when you're having fun. Really appreciate the feedback and the details, and it's always a good conversation. So I wanted to thank you again for your time, Burt. Thank you so much. Burt W. Podbere - CrowdStrike Holdings, Inc. - CFO Always a pleasure. Thank you. Fatima Aslam Boolani - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division - Associate Director and Equity Research Associate Technology-Software Take care. Burt W. Podbere - CrowdStrike Holdings, Inc. - CFO You too. Be safe. DISCLAIMER Refinitiv reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes. In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized. THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES REFINITIV OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS. 2020, Refinitiv. All Rights Reserved. 13537776-2020-12-08T20:55:35.627 11 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 08, 2020 / 5:05PM, CRWD.OQ - CrowdStrike Holdings Inc at UBS Global TMT Conference (Virtual)
REFINITIV STREETEVENTS EDITED TRANSCRIPT CRWD.OQ - CrowdStrike Holdings Inc at Barclays Global Technology, Media and Telecommunications Conference (Virtual) EVENT DATE/TIME: DECEMBER 09, 2020 / 6:30PM GMT REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS Burt W. Podbere CrowdStrike Holdings, Inc. - CFO George R. Kurtz CrowdStrike Holdings, Inc. - Co-Founder, CEO, President & Director CONFERENCE CALL PARTICIPANTS Saket Kalia Barclays Bank PLC, Research Division - Senior Analyst PRESENTATION Saket Kalia - Barclays Bank PLC, Research Division - Senior Analyst Okay. Well, hey, good afternoon, everyone, and welcome to the Barclays TMT Conference. My name is Saket Kalia. I cover software here at Barclays. Very happy to have with us the team from CrowdStrike. We've got George Kurtz, Chief Executive Officer; we've got Burt Podbere, Chief Financial Officer; we've also got Maria Riley, Head of Investor Relations. We've got about 25 minutes together. Let's take maybe the first 15 or 20 minutes to go through some fireside chat with the team. And the last few minutes that we've got, we'd love to make this interactive. Any questions you've got on the webcast, just shoot me an email at saket.kalia@barclays.com. I'll do my best to weave them in at the end. So with that, first and foremost, George, Burt, Maria, thanks so much for being with us here today. George R. Kurtz - CrowdStrike Holdings, Inc. - Co-Founder, CEO, President & Director Thank you. Burt W. Podbere - CrowdStrike Holdings, Inc. - CFO Thanks. Pleasure to be here. QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS Saket Kalia - Barclays Bank PLC, Research Division - Senior Analyst Guys, I mean, I think CrowdStrike needs no introduction, but maybe just to level set for everyone, since we're coming off of a recent earnings call, George, can you just recap some of the items that you were personally proudest of coming out of last quarter? And Burt, can you just add some financial color to that as well, maybe some of the stuff that you were proud of as well? George R. Kurtz - CrowdStrike Holdings, Inc. - Co-Founder, CEO, President & Director Sure. I'll start with the team and the execution. I think superb execution, I think, is a real testament to our entire team, in particular, our management team and all the CrowdStrikers that get up every day and focus on stopping breaches. I think if you look at a couple of areas that I'm super proud of, 81% ARR growth at scale, it's unbelievable. If you look at our margin, 78% margin, you can see the leverage in the model. And then when you look at free cash flow at $76 million, again, I think it really highlights the sales force of security that I've been saying for many, many years now. And the module approach that we've taken and how sticky our platform has become and how strategic it's become. And that all translates into a record number of over 1,100 net new customers. So those are just a few highlights that certainly got me excited. There's a lot to be happy about in the last quarter. Burt? 2 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 09, 2020 / 6:30PM, CRWD.OQ - CrowdStrike Holdings Inc at Barclays Global Technology, Media and Telecommunications Conference (Virtual) Burt W. Podbere - CrowdStrike Holdings, Inc. - CFO Yes, absolutely. It's always great when the CEO loves talking about the financials. I reiterate the things that George said. There's a couple of others that are super meaningful to me. Gross margin, record gross margin this quarter. Over the year, Saket, you've been following us already, and you've seen the expansion of the gross margin over time. We're delighted that we had a record quarter in gross margin. And that's a cross-functional effort across the DevOps team, the engineering team, certainly finance to make sure that we've got (inaudible) to make that happen. So really happy about that. George talked about the leverage. Certainly, we're at a record level in leverage. And okay, great. It shows that we're a really well-run company. We've always got an eye to the bottom. What it was also telling us is that we've got an opportunity to invest. And that really excites me as I think about investing and being able to invest aggressively. That's what the signals are telling us, and that's what we (inaudible) Saket Kalia - Barclays Bank PLC, Research Division - Senior Analyst Got it. Got it. Very helpful recap, guys. That's a good foundation. George, I'd love to maybe dig in a little bit just into the core Falcon platform on -- from an endpoint perspective. You've called out multiple competitive displacements, not just on this call but prior calls as well. And so I guess the question is, why do you think this market is ripping and replacing both legacy as well as other next-gen providers in favor of CrowdStrike? George R. Kurtz - CrowdStrike Holdings, Inc. - Co-Founder, CEO, President & Director When you look at the platform we built, Falcon, it really delivers on what customers want. They want that single agent. They want the ability to collect data at scale and have a data repository. That's sort of the holy grail for many companies. And they want a modular framework that allows them to solve different use cases without adding a whole bunch of complexity. At the end of the day, they want something that works, stopping breaches. And also as we see more, helps enable the IT team. And I talked about it on the call. You can't just throw a PowerPoint up and call it good. You actually have to build technology that works. You have to have customers validate it, and we've done that at scale. And I think you've seen now the separation between us and many of the other competitors, whether it's a new competitor, a next-gen player that's out there or whether it's any of the legacy players. The technology works, the customers love it, and we're driving innovation into a true platform. That was my vision when I started the company. And we've executed on that, I think, quite well. Saket Kalia - Barclays Bank PLC, Research Division - Senior Analyst Absolutely, absolutely. Burt, maybe from your perspective, kind of similar question just on competitive displacements. I know you worked with the sales team headed by Mike Carpenter very closely when planning. And so the question is, what are you hearing on the velocity of rip and replace opportunities and sort of how that's impacting the pipeline? You made some pipeline commentaries in the last call. Just talk about that and competitive displacements as part of that. Does that make sense? Burt W. Podbere - CrowdStrike Holdings, Inc. - CFO It does. Sure. And I think the big piece, of course, you mentioned is this pipeline. We're going into the quarter with a record pipeline, once again, which is really exciting for us. And I do work closely with Mike. And Mike and I need to work closely together on the planning side, I get his insights for sure. But as you know, I also like to talk to customers myself, talk to customers, one-on-one, talk to the channel, make sure that I have a full picture when we go into the planning sessions and understand where there are opportunities to increase the velocity of bringing in customers into the Falcon platform. Here's what we hear. We hear the customers really want something that is easy to use and simple to manage. They want to press the button and it works. And that's what we can deliver. Digital transformation, we talked a lot about it on the earnings call and then the prerequisite for that is 3 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 09, 2020 / 6:30PM, CRWD.OQ - CrowdStrike Holdings Inc at Barclays Global Technology, Media and Telecommunications Conference (Virtual) security transformation. And people want to think about, okay, well, my next refresh, it's not really going to be about feeds and speeds. It's going to be about different architecture and be able to stop breaches in a very different way. It's not all about malware. It's much greater than that. And they're talking about endpoint and workloads and Zero Trust on the identity side. We're hearing a lot of that. We're also hearing folks trying to figure out how to save money and get great tech and how to bridge the skills gap. I think that's important. We offer our complete module, which allows us to basically manage the CrowdStrike tools on their behalf. And then I think -- and lastly, I think that customers are really, really set up with the legacy players, stiff-arming them and just increasing prices and not really giving the service. So that's what we're hearing from our customers. I think all that comes into the planning session as we think about how to drive deeper into people's security profile, and we've seen that work to date. Saket Kalia - Barclays Bank PLC, Research Division - Senior Analyst Got it. Got it. George and Burt, I think, touched on this a little bit, but I want to talk about the module story here. Because I think that's important for the story here for broader adoption beyond kind of AV and EDR, right? Well, there's still plenty of adoption to go. Let's just be clear. But I mean, there seems like there's a lot more here than AV and EDR. If I think about sort of the top 3, I think here, right? You've got AV, you've got EDR and you've got OverWatch. I would call those sort of the top 3. But -- and you correct me there if I'm wrong, obviously, right? But maybe the question for you is what's going to be -- what's increasingly becoming the popular #4 and #5, if you will, and why? George R. Kurtz - CrowdStrike Holdings, Inc. - Co-Founder, CEO, President & Director Well, I mean, I won't go through all of the ordering of all the modules. But in terms of popular modules, certainly, Discover has been very popular in terms of -- particularly in the pandemic, the ability to actually touch and feel these machines, the ability to actually update them, to patch them, to drive automation into the IT and the SecOps process has been a real win for our customers. And I think when you combine that with things like Spotlight, the ability to actually understand where you might be vulnerable without any scanning, without sort of legacy vulnerability agent scan or network scan, incredibly popular. And even things that customers are always struggling with is, they don't have enough people in their sock and don't have enough expertise. So things like Falcon X that really drive automation into the threat intelligence process. And coupling that with our Falcon Sandbox and our Malquery, which is our malware repository searching capability is all automated. That drives a lot of additional module attached. So we've added a couple of new modules since Falcon. One of them that we're really excited about is Falcon in Horizon, which is focused on cloud security posture management. And I think that plays right into what we've been focused on is, really protecting those cloud workloads and the huge opportunity that presents. Saket Kalia - Barclays Bank PLC, Research Division - Senior Analyst Sure. Definitely want to dig into that in a couple of questions here. But maybe Burt, to sort of round out the, again, what I think is a powerful module story here, is how that module story actually connects back to gross margins, right, which I know is a metric that you're very passionate about, right? And so the question is, as this module adoption continues, what sort of impact does that have on gross margin and why? Burt W. Podbere - CrowdStrike Holdings, Inc. - CFO Yes. So for us, the beauty of the model is after you purchase your first module, every module after that is virtual gross margin. And so obviously, the more modules we have, the more opportunity to enhance our gross margin. And you've seen the adoption rates from our earnings call, when we have 4, 5 or 6 modules bought by the customers in over 60, 40 and over 20, respectively. And that's exciting for us. All of those have been growing. And at some point, we're going to be dropping how many of our customers have 4 or more because it's going to get closer and closer to 4 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 09, 2020 / 6:30PM, CRWD.OQ - CrowdStrike Holdings Inc at Barclays Global Technology, Media and Telecommunications Conference (Virtual) that 100, and you will only be talking about 5, 6 and 7. And then similarly, we're going to drop 5 at some point. And we talk about 6, 7, 8. So those are the things that really get us excited and really get me excited about how I think about gross margins from a modular perspective. Saket Kalia - Barclays Bank PLC, Research Division - Senior Analyst Got it. Got it. That's helpful. George, I want to come back to what you said earlier, right, just in terms of some of the new modules here, but maybe broaden the discussion because you've been talking a lot more about cloud security lately. And as you know, that's a term that's kind of thrown out a lot. I'm not talking about sort of security from the cloud, right, through something like the Threat Graph, for example. But security for the cloud, right, with things like Falcon for Cloud service and, of course, Falcon Horizon, as you mentioned. And so maybe the first philosophical question that I have for you is, why do you think a disruptive endpoint tool can provide the same level of protection in different types of workloads, like AWS, for example? George R. Kurtz - CrowdStrike Holdings, Inc. - Co-Founder, CEO, President & Director Well, I would reframe and say a disruptive workload protection tool, not an endpoint tool, which is I think one of my big takeaways here is not to think about us as purely an endpoint company because we are so much broader than that. That's why we spend a lot of time on workloads. And when you look at customers' willingness and ability -- willingness to consume a cloud-based technology, it's there because they need it. But I think more importantly, when you look at the legacy providers and what they have to offer, no one wants to roll out heavyweight agents and big iron to manage all this stuff in the cloud. They want to consume it the way they actually develop things and run things, right, which is femoral workloads, virtual workloads, serverless, things of that nature. And our technology is perfect for that environment. And it's lightweight, it works, and it doesn't get in the way of developers, which has really been a barrier for why a lot of these legacy technologies haven't been implemented. There's no developer in the world that wants to put a legacy agent in their container. It's just never going to work. And we can accommodate protecting and providing visibility in those workloads without being in them because we run underneath on the operating system level, and we've got a unique insight in protecting those workloads as they come up and down. Saket Kalia - Barclays Bank PLC, Research Division - Senior Analyst Got it. Got it. That's helpful. Maybe Burt, on the same topic. One of the questions that I got after the most recent earnings call was on the idea of 20% of servers CrowdStrike protects are in the public cloud. And maybe more specifically, how the pricing compares for Falcon on-premise versus a cloud server? And just to maybe caveat this, I imagine some of this is going to be apples and oranges, right? Because maybe some cloud servers are metered pricing versus maybe more of an annual subscription for traditional server. But I guess the question is, Burt, is there anything you can give us to just give us a sense for what impact could there be as more servers go into the public cloud on CrowdStrike on pricing? Burt W. Podbere - CrowdStrike Holdings, Inc. - CFO Yes. No, I think you hit some of it already, which is, basically, we're talking about flexibility in our pricing. And cloud workloads can be, as everybody knows, used differently, right? They can be spun up and spun down pretty quickly. So the key for us when we are thinking about pricing is to be able to offer flexibility to our customers. One, you've mentioned metered billing, we can tie into the AWS bill and have it seamless with them. And so that really keeps the system frictionless in terms of billing and getting paid faster. So we like that. And customers like that because then they're just paying as they use. We also have this concept of a pool of licenses. So a customer can have a pool of licenses and keep drawing from that pool up and down. And then if they're seeing that they're using more and more, they can just increase pool size. So customers do like that. And then there's on the host itself for those customers who want to be able to activate that type of pricing mechanism. So again, the key message and takeaway is that we're very flexible in the way that we bill and work with our customers for what makes most sense for them. 5 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 09, 2020 / 6:30PM, CRWD.OQ - CrowdStrike Holdings Inc at Barclays Global Technology, Media and Telecommunications Conference (Virtual) Saket Kalia - Barclays Bank PLC, Research Division - Senior Analyst Got it. Got it. George, maybe staying on this topic. I mean, you mentioned Falcon Horizon earlier. I want to kind of double-click on that. I feel like we've heard a couple of other companies maybe talk about cloud posture management. And so the question is, how do you sort of think about this posture management space? And why do you think Horizon can win? George R. Kurtz - CrowdStrike Holdings, Inc. - Co-Founder, CEO, President & Director Well, we've been thinking about it for a long time, and we looked at a lot of the existing technologies many years ago. And those have been pretty much bought up for the most part, but they didn't meet our needs. They didn't have what we wanted. And as you might imagine, we have formed a really large cloud, and we have specific requirements. So we actually built our own technology and perfected that over a number of years and now really just commercialized that and made that another module focusing on understanding the configuration and the posture of IaaS and PaaS type environments. And that's much different than the way people are used to running their infrastructure. I mean, normally, you could control your infrastructure, you have visibility, you can roll out tools. You can't do that in the public cloud. So we built this some years ago. We've matured it. So it's not an immature product in the market now. And the initial response has been amazing since we just launched the product at Falcon. So we're really excited about that. I think it plays a tremendous role in helping secure the cloud because it's not just about the workload protection, it's also about the configuration and the errors that can occur and the risks that can occur from those errors. So early days, but we're excited about the response from our customers. Saket Kalia - Barclays Bank PLC, Research Division - Senior Analyst Yes, absolutely. There's a great Gartner report about sort of breaches in the cloud and how so many of them are going to actually be from bad sort of configuration, if you will. So understood on that. Burt, maybe related to Horizon for you, again, understanding that it's early, any broad brushes that you can provide on how Horizon might be priced and how that adoption curve might look? Burt W. Podbere - CrowdStrike Holdings, Inc. - CFO Absolutely. So as George talked about, this module is driven by IaaS and PaaS. So it's more of an asset-based pricing, so path similar to SV and ELV. I think that's how we think about it. And it's early days, but that's how we're going to market. Saket Kalia - Barclays Bank PLC, Research Division - Senior Analyst Got it. Got it. I want to ask a couple of strategic finance questions here just in the time that we've got left. And again, for anyone on the webcast that want to ask questions, please feel free to e-mail me here. But George, despite -- it's so infrequent that you see this, but despite your significant growth, the company has actually generated cash, right? And so being co-founder, being a member of the Board, from a capital allocation perspective, how is the Board thinking about the strategic uses of cash, especially as that balance presumably builds? George R. Kurtz - CrowdStrike Holdings, Inc. - Co-Founder, CEO, President & Director Well, as I started in the first question, we're excited and proud of the cash generation that we've achieved over the last number of quarters. And again, it lends itself to really showcase the leverage we have in the model. I think Burt is probably the best to answer that because he spends even 6 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 09, 2020 / 6:30PM, CRWD.OQ - CrowdStrike Holdings Inc at Barclays Global Technology, Media and Telecommunications Conference (Virtual) more time thinking about all of those allocations. And we're just getting through our annual operating plan. So I know that's top of mind for him. So Burt? Burt W. Podbere - CrowdStrike Holdings, Inc. - CFO Yes. Thanks, George. So 3 keys, one is we think about the operating leverage we have and our unit economics that we've been able to derive. And certainly, with respect to S&M, when we look at Magic Number, we actually disposed our Magic Number this quarter. It's telling us we need to invest, right? It's telling us we have an opportunity to aggressively invest. And we're going to do just that. I mean, George has talked many times even on the calls about how we're taking advantage of programs on marketing side, digital marketing activities are up as well as his thoughts about e-commerce and the frictionless go-to-market and how are we able to get customers on friction -- without friction seamlessly. That all is very helpful to be able to aggressively invest in areas such as emerging markets, right? Generally, those, when you go into them, there's -- the efficiency isn't quite there. You've got to get in there, build out the infrastructure and then you're able to gain some efficiencies. But early days, it's less efficient. And then there are things out there that we can zoom in on the sales side with respect to overlays, cloud being one of them. Hiring cloud experts on the sales side. So as we launch these modules into cloud, we think about what type of experts we're going to need to have to sell it. And so at first, it's less efficient. But then over time, it gets more efficient. So those are areas, certainly on the S&M line, we want to aggressively invest. And then finally, on the R&D line, right? We have this enormous opportunity in front of us, and we think about our ability to take some of the opportunity and invest aggressively in it. So as I think about future years or certainly in the near term, we think about the ability to take our R&D line and have it as a great percentage of revenue than, I'd say, in S&M or G&A . It's there. We have so much we can go after, and we don't -- we want to go after it, and we're going to invest in it together. So that's how we think about -- that's how I think about our deployment of cash. Saket Kalia - Barclays Bank PLC, Research Division - Senior Analyst Got it. Got it. Burt, actually, maybe I think that line of questioning is -- maybe a good follow-up would just sort of be, you talked about some of the individual OpEx line. So let's just elevate it to overall profitability, right, maybe overall operating margin. And I mean it's a good problem to have, right? But there's always that balance that I think growth companies like CrowdStrike have to balance in terms of growth in the top line versus sort of operating margin expansion. I understand you don't have a guide out there for next year, but any broad brushes that you want to think -- you want us to think about as you sort of balance those 2 things together? Burt W. Podbere - CrowdStrike Holdings, Inc. - CFO Yes, absolutely. So as I've already mentioned, we are going to invest aggressively next year. This is something that we feel is the appropriate thing to do at this time in a company life cycle. The opportunity is there, and we're going to take advantage of it but always with an eye to the bottom. Like, we're never going to lose that discipline. It is going to be a disciplined approach as we think about things. Do we have some additional room to invest aggressively? Absolutely. Will we take advantage of it? Absolutely. But will we ever take our eye off the bottom? Absolutely, no. So that's how kind of we think about the balance between profitability and growth. Saket Kalia - Barclays Bank PLC, Research Division - Senior Analyst Yes. That's super helpful. George, maybe last couple of questions for you. So FireEye recently had a breach, right? This is all out in the public domain. Maybe from a threat actor perspective because I imagine CrowdStrike is seeing a lot of the same things and stuff like that out there. I mean any comment that you want to make on that, George, just from a threat actor perspective or really open end question, any thoughts on that breach? George R. Kurtz - CrowdStrike Holdings, Inc. - Co-Founder, CEO, President & Director Well, certainly, Kevin and his team, they've got world-class people, and I think it showcases just how sophisticated these threat actors are. And I think when you put it in perspective, it does really reinforce why security is so important at the Board level. Why audit committees care about this? 7 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 09, 2020 / 6:30PM, CRWD.OQ - CrowdStrike Holdings Inc at Barclays Global Technology, Media and Telecommunications Conference (Virtual) Why it's a necessity before people move to the cloud with digital transformation. And I think it just reinforces why we have to continue to be vigilant. The adversary is always changing. They're never going to stop. And I think that's one of those areas. Despite having a vaccine, the adversaries aren't going away, right? You're only going to see the need for security more and more as we go through this digital transformation process. So they're sophisticated and determined. Saket Kalia - Barclays Bank PLC, Research Division - Senior Analyst Got it. Got it. Maybe we'll latch off that point and actually take advantage, and we'll make this the last question. I just -- I know you spent a lot of time with customers. I think you and Mike Carpenter did like a 100 customers in 100 days or, I think, during the year with something pretty intense, right, but you spent a lot of time with customers. Obviously, 2020 was a really interesting year. What are your customers saying about their willingness to invest next year in security? George, maybe just a little... George R. Kurtz - CrowdStrike Holdings, Inc. - Co-Founder, CEO, President & Director They're very willing. What we know today is that things won't look like the past. And people are trying to figure out new business models, how to adapt, how to reduce their cost, how to take advantage of some of the newer technologies. And the pandemic was really just a mass that was thrown on the digital transformation kindling and security is going to go along with it. You have to have it. You can't -- I was having a conversation a couple of days ago with someone, and they said, "Well, as people move to the cloud, what are they thinking about?" And I said, you can't move to the cloud unless the security team is involved. It won't happen. It's just not going to happen in any company because it's just a function of business today. So when we see people trying to reinvent themselves and reinvent their business model, security is part and parcel to that wave. And if we believe in the cloud, which I do, and if we believe in the fact that people want to modernize their infrastructure, which I do, then security is going to parallel that slope of the curve, and we're going to be the company they're going to call on. Saket Kalia - Barclays Bank PLC, Research Division - Senior Analyst Got it. Well, maybe we'll end on that point, George, Burt, Maria, thank you so much for taking the time here. Hopefully, the folks on the webcast enjoyed it. I certainly did as well. Hopefully, we'll be able to do this session next year in person like we have in the past and just continue learning. George R. Kurtz - CrowdStrike Holdings, Inc. - Co-Founder, CEO, President & Director Great. Thank you so much. Saket Kalia - Barclays Bank PLC, Research Division - Senior Analyst Thanks a lot, guys. Have a good one. Burt W. Podbere - CrowdStrike Holdings, Inc. - CFO You too. Stay safe, Saket. Saket Kalia - Barclays Bank PLC, Research Division - Senior Analyst Alrighty, you too. Bye now. 8 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 09, 2020 / 6:30PM, CRWD.OQ - CrowdStrike Holdings Inc at Barclays Global Technology, Media and Telecommunications Conference (Virtual) Burt W. Podbere - CrowdStrike Holdings, Inc. - CFO Bye-bye. DISCLAIMER Refinitiv reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes. In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized. THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES REFINITIV OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS. 2020, Refinitiv. All Rights Reserved. 13537781-2020-12-09T21:43:04 9 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 09, 2020 / 6:30PM, CRWD.OQ - CrowdStrike Holdings Inc at Barclays Global Technology, Media and Telecommunications Conference (Virtual)
REFINITIV STREETEVENTS EDITED TRANSCRIPT NWSA.OQ - News Corp at UBS Global TMT Conference (Virtual) EVENT DATE/TIME: DECEMBER 09, 2020 / 9:40PM GMT REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS Robert J. Thomson News Corporation - CEO & Director CONFERENCE CALL PARTICIPANTS Thomas G. Beadle UBS Investment Bank, Research Division - Associate Director and Research Analyst PRESENTATION Thomas G. Beadle - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division - Associate Director and Research Analyst Hi, everyone. This is Tom Beadle from the UBS TMT team. I'm based in Sydney, Australia. It's my pleasure today to introduce to you, Robert Thomson, the CEO of News Corporation. Further, it's obviously been a very big -- dramatic, at least, I guess, 6 or 9 months now. So first I guess, to begin with, I hope you and your family are all safe and well. QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS Thomas G. Beadle - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division - Associate Director and Research Analyst I guess to start with, Robert, a key strategic priority for News Corp recently has been to simplify the structure. So can you talk about some of the initiatives underway now that you've sold News America Marketing and a few other of your smaller businesses. And can you talk about what are the other key priorities been used, call it over the next 1 to 3 years? Robert J. Thomson - News Corporation - CEO & Director Yes. Tom, welcome, welcome everyone. I do hope you're keeping safe and keeping sage. Look, as a company, as many of you know, we've focused intently on simplifying our asset structure and increasing transparency. Most obviously, recently by the resegmentation that created the separate Dow Jones line, that naturally increases scrutiny, which is a good thing on that business, but also on our other newspaper businesses, which is a sign of our confidence in their ability to transition successfully into the digital age. We were acutely aware that the market undervalued our company overall because there wasn't enough visibility about the value of the segments. People complained about the complexity, and there was some justification in that complaint. But overall, it's a very different company to that, which was created with a spin-off. We sold Amplify, the digital education company. We sold the local newspaper group in the U.S. well ahead of the travails of most local newspapers in this country. We sold Unruly. We sold News America Marketing. We've clarified the ownership of Foxtel. We have acquired Harlequin books in realtor.com, which by some reckoning has made us the largest digital real estate company in the world. And there have been some difficult decisions in the simplification like closing the print editions of many of our regional and community papers in Australia or the sale of AAP, the Australian Newswire, which was actually created by Sir, Keith Murdoch, Rupert's father, in 1935. And we've announced the planned closure of our New York plant. And these are not decisions taken superficially, but they were necessary. And the onset of COVID as highlighted the importance of that simplification strategy. And look, we're realistic about the sector's prospects, and we've been responding accordingly. We're on our past, but we are now presence of that past. And that's why our performance of late has been very different about the media companies. Our cash balance is actually stronger. Our cost reduction programs have started to kick in. And our ability to generate revenue through digital has improved markedly, whether that be digital subs or digital advertising or digital real estate or digital books. 2 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 09, 2020 / 9:40PM, NWSA.OQ - News Corp at UBS Global TMT Conference (Virtual) And it's fair to say that the pandemic has been a serious stress test for businesses. And I've been very proud of how our employees and our executives, our leaders have handled the crisis, not only in the company but frankly, in their roles in philanthropically in the community. And they've dealt with the challenge with empathy, with perspicacity, and with principal. And I have to say, again, many of our employees have made contributions to their communities, both in a financial sense and a personal sense. Now from a purely financial perspective, clearly, we had a strong first quarter with Dow Jones, Digital Real Estate, and HarperCollins, all recording increases in EBITDA of about 45%. And I'm naturally pleased with their performance and the continuing growth in their segments. They have certainly passed the stress test. And we've long ago identified those areas as priorities for strategic growth. And so when you ask about the next 3 years, that's very clear now that we have an extremely robust foundation, but a particularly bright future and meaningful momentum from the first quarter forward. Thomas G. Beadle - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division - Associate Director and Research Analyst Robert, News Corp has $1.5 billion of cash on its balance sheet and no debt that has recourse to the parent entity. I think you've spoken about your ambitions to become a global player in digital real estate. How might you deploy -- sorry, all of this capital? Robert J. Thomson - News Corporation - CEO & Director Look, we're constantly reviewing the deployment of capital and constantly considering the best value, the best returns for our shareholders, both in the short, medium, and long-term. And we've been very conscious of bolstering our cash position during this time of crisis. And the fact that that cash position has improved means that our optionality has increased. As for digital real estate specifically, look, the most important way of maximizing our real estate assets is to ensure that they're the fastest-growing, most lucrative, most innovative sites in the world are that they're truly digital in their orientation and not weighed down by bricks-and-mortar and unsold inventory, which is the case elsewhere in that sector in the U.S. You don't want to be burdened by the need to renovate a kitchen or add a bidet in the bathroom. And the benefits of that creative committed approach to digital and to our vendors, to our clients, and to potential buyers was clearly evident in the results last quarter at realtor.com. We haven't now have Tracey Fellows, who's overseeing our global real estate operations. We've just consolidated our India operations through REA. So there is more shape, there's more clarity, there's more responsibility there. And overall, in that business, there's a real sense of purpose and a sense of growth, a sense of cohesion, which Tracey is increasing through her personal leadership. She lead our business in Australia. She transform Move's. She's now overseeing and strategizing about the future of digital real estate. Thomas G. Beadle - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division - Associate Director and Research Analyst Robert, we will focus more on digital real estate later. But I think just to jump back for a bit. I think you've spoken in the past about the negative impact of the digital geography , Facebook, and Google on just general digital growth. And in the past couple of years, there have been some positive developments, such as partnerships with Facebook, Google, and Apple. How does this change the game, not just for News Corp., but for publishers more generally? And can you provide an update on the progress of any of these agreements? 3 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 09, 2020 / 9:40PM, NWSA.OQ - News Corp at UBS Global TMT Conference (Virtual) Robert J. Thomson - News Corporation - CEO & Director Well, obviously, the negotiations are ongoing. It's fair to say they're at an advanced stage, and it's not in one particular country at the moment. It's -- these are global negotiations because we're a global company. And I think what you say is very true. The contours of digital content have changed fundamentally. And the sorts of negotiations that are taking place now were regarded as sensible by many in the digital industry 2 or 3 years ago. And some mocked, frankly, News Corp for being such a strong advocate of a premium for premium content. But look, I have to pay tribute to Rupert Murdoch, Lachlan Murdoch, and the News Corp Board because it has at times been a genuinely learning journey over the past decade. We've -- we're often seen as a voice in the wilderness, and now that single voice has clearly become a global chorus. The way to look at it in terms of material benefit for our company is to understand that for media companies, there are 2 things that are in motion. One, the payment of a premium for premium content; and two, changes in ad tech. And you can see that that's obviously the subject of some regulatory interest but the transparency around ad tech, we believe, longer term, will increase the yield on our ad inventory and now, frankly, our control over that inventory. And we have absolutely no doubt in the quality of that inventory. And very hard, there's also a social focus to what we're doing, which is it was very clear that journalism and journalists were endangered species in the previous digital model. Now not just for us, but for the entire industry, the terms of trade are changing. There is a realistic prospect of more digital sites being more successful. And you can see, frankly, still at this stage, there are so many traditional, digital companies that are now merging to accelerate, because they simply have not been able to find a way through the digital ticket. Well, I think what we've been able to do certainly for our company because our first obligation is to our employees and to our shareholders. But more specifically, for the industry, we have been able to pave a pathway to the future. And I'm confident that that future will be not only auspicious but to a certain extent, prosperous, which it needs to be if you're going to invest in journalism. Thomas G. Beadle - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division - Associate Director and Research Analyst Robert, the overriding theme of this is obviously being COVID-19. So I'd like to -- I guess, I'd like to make some comments around that. I guess it's impacted every part of the world. And just given your large geographic footprint, can you just talk about, firstly, what you've observed across the various geographies that you operate in? And how COVID-19 might have impacted some geographies differently? And you've obviously used this as an opportunity as well to address your cost base across a number of businesses. For example, in the first quarter, we saw adjusted revenues fall 3%, but costs fell 6%. So could you talk about how much of these cost savings are temporary or due to government existence such as job keeper versus structural changes that you've made to your businesses and how that might look on the other side of COVID? Robert J. Thomson - News Corporation - CEO & Director Yes. The net effect of the figures that you just cited, obviously, was that our margin went up from 9.4% to 12.7%. But look, COVID, and I don't mean to be glim about this because it's a tragic circumstance for many communities. But the COVID's impact on companies and communities is a bit like the impact on the human body and that it seeks out vulnerabilities. And the second thing it does and has done in both society and in business is accelerate to expedite pre-existing trends. And so we have definitely noticed that in our businesses. And what has been reassuring is the robustness of all our businesses. The leadership we've seen from Michael Miller in Australia, Rebekah in the U.K., Sean Giancola at the New York Post, Almar Latour at Dow Jones because we've -- clearly, print products were going to be under particular pressure at that time because of the closure of news agencies, the difficulty of distribution. 4 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 09, 2020 / 9:40PM, NWSA.OQ - News Corp at UBS Global TMT Conference (Virtual) But that team has enabled us to not only to get through the crisis but to start to get the company fit-for-purpose in the future. And I mean, as you mentioned, we did have to make difficult decisions. And there was a 12% reduction in staff at News Media, 17% at Foxtel. 112 of our regional community papers in Australia went from print to digital-only. Those are major events in the history of our company. And they do have real consequences on communities. But at the same time, we thought it was absolutely necessary to continue the role that our company can play in Australia with journalism. But longer term, as I said, the expediting of digital trends, that's very, very clear. We've seen a return in popularity of e-books, which 5 or 6 years ago, we're at 24% of sales for HarperCollins, and that trailed to mid-teens, clearly on the rise again. Audiobooks on the rise. The value of the Dow Jones digital suite of products has become more obvious. So digital real estate, one of the fascinating trends of COVID is that clearly, many families are making existential decisions about their future. They're either deciding their current cost is too small, it's in the wrong area that people are moving from urban areas to suburban areas to semi-rural areas. They're making lifestyle choices, and that's one of the reasons why you're seeing record traffic at the moment at realtor.com. In Q1, it was a monthly average around 80 million or so. And it's an indication that not only businesses are changing, but the societies are changing. And to be a successful business, you have to anticipate where that society is going to change, too. Thomas G. Beadle - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division - Associate Director and Research Analyst Robert, maybe we'll just quickly move on to Dow Jones. You recently split out this closure for Dow Jones. What was the rationale behind this? And in your view, how does this business stack up against the New York Times company? Robert J. Thomson - News Corporation - CEO & Director Well, it's a bit of an unfair comparison because obviously, Dow Jones is a much more successful business. The reason for just putting it out was precisely that that we believed it was an underappreciated asset, that it was part of the news and information service sector, which included News America Marketing, which included some papers, which may well have been loss-making. So you didn't get a full picture of the potential of or the trajectory of Dow Jones. And clearly, that was a priority for us. And quite frankly, we thought that have affected our share price. And there's no doubt in recent months since that resegmentation and the extra focus on Dow Jones, that our share price has been enhanced. But it's -- the great story about Dow Jones is the ongoing subscriber growth at WSJ.com for Barron's and now for MarketWatch. And there are 2 priorities really that are, obviously, to reach as many people as possible with most trusted news brand in America, but also to be the leading provider of business news in the world. So that we're not just talking about the quantity of subscribers, it's not difficult to goose numbers in the short-term to get a trump bump and then have a trump slump. But to have the quality of subscribers that gives you margins that ensure both profitability and allow us to build the franchise creatively and purposely. I mean that's clearly the affirmation we're seeing in the Dow Jones numbers and the reaction to those numbers. And those numbers of subscribers represent real discerning individuals whose commitment has been corroborated with a substantial subscription price. And our task is to provide them with the intelligence and insight and analytics that they need and the opportunity to offer the more premium products at a premium price. As I said, look, I honestly don't think the comparison with the New York Times is appropriate. Last quarter, Dow Jones digital advertising increased 14%. The New York Times was down 13%. That obviously speaks to the quality of our content and the quality of audience. And Dow Jones EBITDA was up 47% last quarter. And so we're not shy about that increased scrutiny because we're very proud of what the Dow Jones team are doing. And 5 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 09, 2020 / 9:40PM, NWSA.OQ - News Corp at UBS Global TMT Conference (Virtual) as we said, at the time of our Q1 earnings announcement, the momentum and the trajectory of Dow Jones were very positive, and nothing has happened since to dissuade us from that confidence. Thomas G. Beadle - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division - Associate Director and Research Analyst Yes. Rob, I think there are good points that you make. And I think maybe if we could touch on some of the numbers. Your digital subscription revenues have been growing. They're up 25% in the first quarter and they're annualizing $500 million a year now, and you had 3.9 million Dow Jones customers at September. So could you maybe talk about the size of the longer-term opportunity for Dow Jones? Like what's the total addressable market in the U.S.? And also, what's also the international opportunity here? And is the international opportunity dependent on further reinvestments? Robert J. Thomson - News Corporation - CEO & Director Well, the international opportunity is very clear because, at the end of Q1, international subscribers accounted for less than a 15% of the total. And with Alma, the new Chief Executive of Dow Jones, who is of himself, an individual who's worked in Europe and Asia. By nature, internationally inclined, I think we'll see extra energy into the international markets. And part of -- to your question around cost, much of it is around marketing and packaging and repackaging and repurposing for audiences. We already have as many of the people watching today would realize, we already have a very extensive suite of content. What we have to get better at and what we are getting better at is repackaging that content in a way that makes sense to different oriented in different places at different prices. And then having established that relationship, be able to upsell more specialist products at frankly higher prices. And that's the strategy we have. It doesn't require a lot of investment. It does require a lot of understanding of audience need. We are dealing with very specialist women and men who know what they need to know, and we need to know what they need. And if you have that confluence of consciousness, you get a confluence of content and you get a very auspicious cycle. And we're seeing in the U.S., for example, I referenced at the earnings call, the launch of MarketWatch subscription product which had shown very early signs of quite rapid growth. And I -- there's nothing happened since again that would lead us to believe that, that growth line continue. But also, it was notable how many people were signing up for a Barron's subscription on top of that. In fact, a majority of the MarketWatch subscribers in the first phase, we're also taking a Barron subscription. And so that shows you that there is a significant audience out this untapped, both in this country and globally with the existing content there . Thomas G. Beadle - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division - Associate Director and Research Analyst Robert, you touched on earlier Dow Jones' margins, and you achieved a 15% EBITDA margin FY '20, and that increased to 19% in the first quarter. What type of margins could this business generate in the next 5 -- 3 to 5 years just given the growth in those recurring digital subscription revenues? Robert J. Thomson - News Corporation - CEO & Director Yes. It would be invidious of me to forecast in that way. But I think you identify a viable and a valuable trend because we are seeing a reduction in churn. Our emphasis on data is providing us with more insight into inflection points in the subscription journey. And as well as that, you also have the increasing value of our risk and compliance business, which has grown at double digits and more for now 21 successive quarters. It was up 16% in Q1 on a year earlier. That is a very valuable business. 6 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 09, 2020 / 9:40PM, NWSA.OQ - News Corp at UBS Global TMT Conference (Virtual) I mean, which company doesn't want to maximize compliance and minimize risk. And if so and if anyone's on the call that wants to minimize risk and maximize compliance, I suggest you call Dow Jones. That's a very high-margin business. And so Almar and the team are looking, what are the other verticals that; we need to expand in providing content sets, how to make the most of the Factiva which is incredible resource, and risk and compliance is in part linked to the Factiva portfolio. But there are so many opportunities, not just to increase the quantity of subscribers, but to increase the quality of the relationship we have with them, with the net impact on a net positive impact on yield. Thomas G. Beadle - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division - Associate Director and Research Analyst Robert, we might move back to digital real estate. I guess to start with, you've obviously spoken about becoming that global player. You recently purchased Elara. Can you talk to your strategy across those broader global portfolio assets? And just how they also fit into the rest of News Corp structure. Robert J. Thomson - News Corporation - CEO & Director Well, as you recall, the original investment in REA, which was very much Lachlan Murdoch's idea, was a partnership between media platforms and digital real estate. And so that partnership is important to us. And it just certainly played a role in the rise of REALTOR. You recall at the time of the acquisition of REALTOR, which, frankly, for a bargain-basement price, there was some doubt about whether we would be able to transform it. But we were confident that by increasing its profile through links to The Wall Street Journal to MarketWatch to The New York Post which are all very big platforms, that both its profile prestige and performance would improve. And that's certainly been the case. So our media properties certainly have played a role in the rise of both REA and the contemporary success of REALTOR. And you saw the numbers, the REALTOR numbers last quarter. And I'll clear most of the growth in EBITDA, most of the growth in profitability in the last quarter was via REALTOR. And there's a new momentum at that company, which gives us a great degree of optionality. And it's clear that our acquisition of Opcity and increasing the value-add that we can provide to REALTORS and obviously the price of that value-add has been a success. It's clear that our strategy of being a hard-core digital real estate company and avoiding bricks-and-mortar is successful. The only vested interest we have is the service to clients, service to families that want to buy a home. We don't have unsold inventory of houses that we're trying to flog. And so there is a coherence to the global strategy that Tracey is overseeing. And she's quite obviously constantly looking for opportunities that just make sense. And we're not a company that's going to overpay for things. We wouldn't pay the sort of money that that Bertelsmann is, for example, offering for Simon & Schuster. That's an exorbitant amount. We're a company that is going to be very careful marshaling our funds. We feel a real responsibility to shareholders. We're not going to do fashionable things for the sake. Think of the acquisition of Harlequin, which has been successful for HarperCollins. The acquisition of REALTOR, which was seemingly at the time unfashionable. I mean what's the REALTOR work now due to the mental math, it's an extremely valuable company in a digital real estate market that is still relatively at an early stage of its evolution. Thomas G. Beadle - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division - Associate Director and Research Analyst Yes. Look, Robert, we might just touch on REALTOR for a little bit. I mean, can you just -- I guess, firstly, the results of the first quarter was really strong. Your revenue was up 12%, following a 10% decline in the fourth quarter. There was a positive EBITDA contribution there. Can you talk about some of the drivers of that? Can this be repeated throughout the rest of the year just to start with? 7 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 09, 2020 / 9:40PM, NWSA.OQ - News Corp at UBS Global TMT Conference (Virtual) Robert J. Thomson - News Corporation - CEO & Director Yes. Look, I'm not a soothsayer. But what I can be specific about is that Move accounted to 80% of the segment revenue growth, 70% of segment EBITDA growth. As I see that, average month your needs were up 26%. It's a very powerful platform, and it's growing. And it's -- nothing has happened subsequently for us to change our assessment that we made at that time. And it's -- it clearly is fulfilling a need that other digital real estate companies are neglecting. And it is that objectivity. It is that neutrality. It's providing the best possible service without having a vested interest. And so we're very confident about its potential. We're very confident at Tracey and David Doctorow at REALTOR, strategically aware of the opportunities where they're certainly not complacent. They're ultra-competitive individuals, which you need to be in a growth market like that, but it is a growth market. And within that growth market, REALTOR is growing quickly. Thomas G. Beadle - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division - Associate Director and Research Analyst Robert, I might be sort of focus on Opcity here as well. I mean that's provided you with the opportunity to pivot Move's revenue model. So can you frame the opportunity here for Move? And can you talk about -- I think you touched on it a little bit earlier a bit more detail how Move's differentiating versus the Zillow's of the world and how Opcity has been fitted into this differentiation? Robert J. Thomson - News Corporation - CEO & Director Yes. It was -- obviously, different leads have different values that there are -- when people come to our website, you can tell from the AI, are they looking at the same property over and over again in the same area? Or other -- is it sort of late-night looking at a place in Hawaii and then another place in Sydney, and then something in rural Scotland. That person is probably not going to be buying a house in Brooklyn. And so -- but the person who looks at a house in Brooklyn 11 times in 3 days is likely to be interested. And so you can -- from that, you can design very clearly which members of -- and we get more and more sophisticated at doing that, which leads are more valuable, and we're able to follow-up very quickly with people who reach out to us. We're able to help them as much as possible. And through refining and divining, we're able to provide essentially a high-quality lead, which we can shepherd to REALTORS and increase the likelihood that that will get a deal done. And that's a very valuable lead. And we're pleased with the way that Opcity and REALTOR are integrated. If you look at the executive team at REALTOR now, very clearly, the Opcity culture is playing a role in determining policy and influencing decisions on a day-to-day, day after day basis, and that of itself has been of value to REALTOR to get that injection of cutting edge character and quality and energy is making it -- it's definitely making a difference -- a positive difference to the personality of the company. Thomas G. Beadle - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division - Associate Director and Research Analyst Robert, maybe 1 final question on Move. Can you talk about some of the initiatives that you've undertaken to improve engagement in that business? And eventually, how might that flow through to revenue growth in the business over the medium-term? Robert J. Thomson - News Corporation - CEO & Director Well, we have recently announced a partnership with Rocket Mortgage, which is again, it's based on leads. If you know who's bought a property or is about to buy a property that is extremely valuable to a company, a great company like Rocket. And there's so much more than you can offer 8 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 09, 2020 / 9:40PM, NWSA.OQ - News Corp at UBS Global TMT Conference (Virtual) to someone to a family making an important decision of buying a house. When you know precisely who they are when you've actually had a role, a really pivotal role in that sale. And so not only was the Rocket deal, but there was many other facets of the real estate industry and related industry, genuinely adjacent, not -- people sometimes use the word adjacent very loosely. We use it in a very precise manner, genuinely adjacent businesses that make sense to our skill set but also makes sense, most importantly, to the client. And we've also launched a Seller's Marketplace to provide listings for iBuyers. We're not in the iBuyer business, which makes us a genuinely mutual independent objective platform for those who are and better that than someone with a vested interest because they've got a heap of unsold inventory. Thomas G. Beadle - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division - Associate Director and Research Analyst Look, Robert, we're almost running out of time, but I think it would be remiss of me not to talk about the Book Publishing business. Obviously, you mentioned before that the Harlequin acquisition. But look, this business has held up remarkably well, not just doing COVID, but it's performed quite well in recent years despite the view from some that it possibly faces structural headwinds. So why do you think this has been the case? Should we be thinking about this business as a publishing or a content business? And also, how should we think about the evolution of this business over the next 3 to 5 years? Robert J. Thomson - News Corporation - CEO & Director Well, I think 1 consequence of the Bertelsmann did for Simon & Schuster apart from, frankly, the difficulties that are going to be posed by a dominant company to distributors, retailers, authors and, dare I say, readers, one consequence is that it shows that investors haven't really fully valued HarperCollins. I wouldn't necessarily use the full Bertelsmann multiple for Simon & Schuster. But I would sharpen the pencil and do the math. It's clear that both in frontlist and backlist, but Book Publishing is a successful enduring business. It depends on the creativity of our editors. It depends on the leadership. It depends on making sure that you are transitioning to digital in the right way. And look, we're -- one of the things to bear in mind with our discussions with Google and Facebook is, it's not just about paying for news. It's about 2 companies, us and Facebook, us and Google, understanding the potential for all sorts of new products or permutations of products, what does content look like in the future. And that is an unseen. But what will be a profound benefit of these ongoing negotiations, there is a much better understanding of how content will look in the future. Whether it be news or whether it be books. And there's a much better understanding that that content must be paid for. And so we're very confident about the future of HarperCollins. We're confident about its future, not only in the U.S., but globally; and not only in the English language, but internationally. And one, frankly, in the past year, one of the fastest-growing markets for us and certainly in the first quarter of this year was Japan, where our margins and our sales have increased quite significantly. And so like Dow Jones, HarperCollins is a company with a global footprint and global potential. Thomas G. Beadle - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division - Associate Director and Research Analyst Look, Robert, we're pretty much out of time. But are there any final remarks, I guess, you'd like to make or anything that we haven't touched on that you'd like to cover quickly? Robert J. Thomson - News Corporation - CEO & Director Well, really just -- I hope everyone out there is taking good care of themselves, and please sage and be safe. 9 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 09, 2020 / 9:40PM, NWSA.OQ - News Corp at UBS Global TMT Conference (Virtual) Thomas G. Beadle - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division - Associate Director and Research Analyst Okay. Great. Look, Robert, obviously, thank you very much for your time. We really appreciate it, and always appreciate your insights. I hope you stay well, and I hope to meet with you in person at some point in the near future. Robert J. Thomson - News Corporation - CEO & Director All very best, Tom. Thomas G. Beadle - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division - Associate Director and Research Analyst Thanks, Robert. DISCLAIMER Refinitiv reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes. In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized. THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES REFINITIV OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS. 2020, Refinitiv. All Rights Reserved. 13537782-2020-12-10T01:15:51.617 10 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 09, 2020 / 9:40PM, NWSA.OQ - News Corp at UBS Global TMT Conference (Virtual)
REFINITIV STREETEVENTS EDITED TRANSCRIPT GRPN.OQ - Groupon Inc at UBS Global TMT Conference (Virtual) EVENT DATE/TIME: DECEMBER 07, 2020 / 8:45PM GMT REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS Aaron Z. Cooper Groupon, Inc. - Interim CEO CONFERENCE CALL PARTICIPANTS Eric James Sheridan UBS Investment Bank, Research Division - MD and Equity Research Internet Analyst PRESENTATION Eric James Sheridan - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division - MD and Equity Research Internet Analyst Okay. And here we are for our next fireside chat. Thanks, everyone, for coming back to our next session. It's my pleasure to host Aaron Cooper, Interim CEO of Groupon, for a fireside chat about all things that are going on with the company. This would be my last apology of the day. I promise for those who've heard this all day, but we do apologize for all the audio and video issues we've had in the main presentations today. Hopefully, we're going to have this all sorted out overnight. I have heard some of the other client meetings have gone smoothly, so we're happy to hear that. But thank you for your (inaudible) the client side on the investor side. And Aaron, thank you, for being understanding with Groupon that we had to move this from a video to an audio. So Aaron, thanks a lot for doing the conference this year. It's great. I think this is your first one. So we're excited that -- to have you for the first time at the UBS Global TMT Conference. Let's get right into it. QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS Eric James Sheridan - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division - MD and Equity Research Internet Analyst You've been in the role for not that long a time. You've had, really, just an unprecedented year with what's been going on with COVID-19, from the pandemic. Why don't you zoom out for us, give us a sense of what your main focuses have been. Have you gone to moving into the CEO role, dealing with COVID-19? And what you've seen from the business at Groupon, and we can use that to maybe set the table. Aaron Z. Cooper - Groupon, Inc. - Interim CEO Absolutely. Thanks for asking. So you got it. I started in the role here at the end of March. So just as COVID was hitting and hitting hard and no one knew exactly what was going to happen day-to-day. And you know what, we've just gone ahead and taken action. And so you'll see that in, really, everything that the company has put forward, to quick and swift action on our SG&A and cost controls, to inventing new strategy and streamlining operations. And there's been a lot in each of those different elements. I'm really proud of the team with the work that they've rallied to and what we've been able to accomplish. But let me just give you a little bit of a context for the -- for what's going on at Groupon, direct to your question. And I'll give you some personal context because I'm pretty happy about it. I went out with my family over Thanksgiving, and I did the scavenger hunt, which we bought on Groupon. It's just like everything else, Groupon suggests something and the customer responds. And since that time, I've mentioned this in my [friends net], my kids, my kids mentioned it to a few other friends. And now we got multiple families out there doing something, and I'm in Chicago, so in the middle of the Chicago 30-degree pandemic, that they just would not have otherwise done, except for Groupon. And that's something that's really special to our business. 2 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 07, 2020 / 8:45PM, GRPN.OQ - Groupon Inc at UBS Global TMT Conference (Virtual) And you can see big pockets of it even within COVID. And what we saw in those early days in April and in May is we're really impressed with the resiliency of the business. We saw our Home and Auto business line maintain really robust sales, almost from the -- in the middle of April. And then into May, we saw our Health, Beauty, Wellness business line really start to come back as customers and merchants adapted to safety protocols within COVID. And for anyone who is a Health, Beauty, Wellness customer, so manis, pedis and everything else, there's a lot there that's been done to make customers feel comfortable and had kept merchants in business. And so across our business, while we have seen that there are transient impacts right now due to pandemic, we're really excited about the progress we've made. And that's some of the things that I let off about here. We've been -- we announced our intention to take $225 million of cost out of the business. We're moving on that. That's on track. And then what's most important there is the teams are moving faster internally, and that's energizing. So for us, as we're managing this business under the big arc of Groupon, we see 2 really important points of inflection. And we've seen it already in a couple of our business lines like Home and Auto and Health, Beauty, Wellness that I mentioned, is that as our business recovers, since we've taken so much cost out, as it even recovers to that 80%, and as we cross 90%, this company throws off EBITDA greater than 2019 and at 90% record EBITDA. And that's something we're really proud at. But our most important focus, Eric, is on our growth strategy, and that is our obsession right now. So all this time, over the last 9 -- 8, 9 months or so, we've been obsessed on our growth strategy, and that starts with our inventory plan. And so what's important to us here is that as we totally plan around the recovery and around this base case of recovery, we're talking about growth. And for us, that means we're building a marketplace such that when merchants and customers come back, they're coming back to something fundamentally improved in ways that they've been asking for, for years. Eric James Sheridan - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division - MD and Equity Research Internet Analyst Okay. There's a lot in there that I want to go a little bit deeper on. But thanks for that, that touches upon a lot of the big themes. First, I wanted to talk about what's going on in the Goods business and the transition you're going through. I think this remains a very misunderstood concept within investors. Are you leaving the business? Are you not leaving the business? Is it a good thing? Is it a bad thing? What drove the decision? We noticed a lot of sort of back and forth with investors on this as a broad topic. Maybe just rewind a little bit, give us a sense of what went on in terms of the decision you made about the Goods business and what you're trying to solve for, not only through the remainder of this year, but as you look out into 2021. Aaron Z. Cooper - Groupon, Inc. - Interim CEO It's a great question. I'm really happy to clarify. And it's this simple. Winning for Groupon is on the other side of winning in local. So what does that mean for the Goods business? The Goods business is part of our overall assortment. And as local recovers, and we grow, that is what -- that's what's front and center. That's what our strategy is based about, and that's what our business is model based about. Now we have Goods as a category. And we've recognized and started to realize the opportunity to reduce that cost structure and significantly simplify the business. And we've executed to that plan exactly. And so while we have seen our customers engage with it, and in a way, that's really positive, certainly throughout April and May and then into Black Friday and Cyber Monday, in outsized ways that occurs in those period of time. 3 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 07, 2020 / 8:45PM, GRPN.OQ - Groupon Inc at UBS Global TMT Conference (Virtual) Our obsession is on Local. and while we're really happy with what we've been able to do with streamlining this Goods business, which hits a couple of key points, not only have we taken the cost out directly, but we've also simplified everything that needs to go on to support that business across the board. Because we've moved it to third-party, we've always had a substantial portion of that business that's been drop ship, and so the transition. While I'm going to say it's straightforward, it certainly wasn't easy for the team, but they managed directly through that. And we feel really good about our progress there in simplifying that business down just so we could increase all of our investment and focus on the Local business. Eric James Sheridan - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division - MD and Equity Research Internet Analyst Great. Okay. That's super clear. And now let's talk about that, on the Local side. So you're reallocating resources. You're sort of making sure you get that opportunity right. One of the key messages with the shareholder communications, the shareholder letter, the earnings release, this past earnings was talking about expanding inventory. Can you talk about the progress you're making in terms of growing high-quality inventory? What are you learning as you grow your inventory in the markets where you're testing this? And how should investors think about what this means for both the investment side and the potential for the growth side over the medium to long term? Aaron Z. Cooper - Groupon, Inc. - Interim CEO So the key here -- let me do something here. I'm going to take a step back and just give you the context because what I found is really good in having everyone understand what we're doing, is to put it in context of many other proven marketplace and scaled advertising platforms. Because what we're doing here is we're taking proven tactics across our customer value proposition and our merchant value proposition and business model, and we're just applying them to the uniqueness of our business, which is where the massive amount of value in our asset is. And so the one-way to think about our business, and especially for those who paid attention for a long time, is we lead an inspiration-driven marketplace. And that was that example I gave earlier about the scavenger hunt. Scavenger hunts aren't something that people typically buy, not an online retail, online travel. But when Groupon suggests that people buy, this has always been the case, and that's very special about our business. That's one of the reasons why merchants look to us for incremental demand. That's different than what I'm now going to define as a destination marketplace or ad platform. I'm thinking about something, and so therefore, I go to brand A, B or C. What we're going to do now is we are going to complement our strong inspiration marketplace, which has sold billions and billions of dollars in the Local space with a destination component. And we're going to do that following tried and true practices. So let me give you a couple of detailed data points on this. For us, we've had this 1 product that has carried our business for years, it's called Deals. And for Deals, there's about a 35%-ish margin and a 35% discount that our merchants apply to make it exciting for customers. But for merchants, that's $0.70 on the dollar. And for that, our marketplace has been restricted. There's only so much inventory merchants will put on. But put on restrictions that say customers can only use that 1 time. And with those 2 qualities, that's not becoming of a destination marketplace. And so as we look to our customer value proposition, we asked our customers, what do they want? And by the way, we know what do they want. They want value, selection and convenience. Basically, they want more supply that is a good deal and that they can buy and buy repeatedly. And then for our merchants, they want more customers, but we've been too expensive for them. And they want to be able to remove those restrictions, so they can get more customers, but won't be too expensive for them. So we have now 3 types of inventory: Deals, which is our legacy business model, has strong billions of dollars in sales. 4 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 07, 2020 / 8:45PM, GRPN.OQ - Groupon Inc at UBS Global TMT Conference (Virtual) Offers. Offers is key. It is first-party inventory that is much lower price to the merchants. This means that when a merchant wants to put something on, they can capture that higher intent customer. That's the customer that doesn't need to be inspired necessarily, but searching for their categories, searching for the merchant, searching for the service, so that when those customers are here, they'll always have something to buy. We say no as a platform to hundreds of thousands of clicks regularly. That's customers that are trying to buy that we say no because the inventory is restricted. Now with Offers, that inventory does not have to be restricted any longer, so our platform, our marketplace can say yes. And our third type of inventory is market rate inventory. This is inventory we get from third parties where the goal is to fill out the store. So customers always have inventory to buy. Now you mentioned our inventory test. And we set this goal back in the summer that we wanted to get a 25% to 50% growth in inventory, and we exceeded the high end of that range. And we did it by about half Deals, and by about half Offers. And so that's over 50% growth in inventory, where about half came from Deals and half came from Offers. And additionally, we saw that about 90% of our new inventory came without all of these restrictions that we're preventing customers from buying and spending more with us. And even better, about 30% of it was bookable, which means you can book that appointment directly from Groupon. So for anybody who's launched a new product, the numbers I'm talking about are staggering. And then, listen, there was a lot of work that's gone in Groupon over the years to know exactly where to hunt. But we're there now, and we're making progress, and we see the results on that scorecard we published. So there's a lot of energy here. And just to give the analogy on a couple of other fronts, what we're doing is what other marketplaces have done. Marketplaces and ad platforms have always started with a low take rate. Step 1, get energy on the platform, incomes and billings. And then later, over time, can add other elements to increase monetization. And what we've done now for this new destination offering is we put offers out there so that we can grow billings according to our scorecard, and then there's other items that we can add, which is why we're happy to be talking now about our MVP offering in sponsored listings, which we just launched, which is a way for merchants to compete for additional traffic. Which works well for Deals, but also works well for Offers at a lower-margin product, but that's very typical for advertising platforms and marketplaces and something our merchants are used to. They've been asking for years to be able to do more, and we're finally saying yes. Same thing on self-service, to be at our scale where all changes to your deal have to run through a salesperson. It's really low leverage. That's not the way marketing -- modern marketing platforms and marketplaces work. And so we're adding that functionality. So item after item is just looking at things that are already working and working at scale and applying them to the uniqueness of our business model, because based on that uniqueness, we have such a huge opportunity. Just 1 transaction more, and I'm talking just 1 from our 2019 cohort of customers is $750 billion in billings, which is really substantial. Eric James Sheridan - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division - MD and Equity Research Internet Analyst So maybe following up there, there was a lot in there. One of the questions we get all the time, and I don't know if it's -- if it's better answered, Aaron, on the merchant side or on the consumer side, but where do you see if some of those -- you talked a lot about reducing friction, improving conversion on the merchant side. If there were 2 or 3 things you think investors should be watching from the outside looking in, that would be signs that would be an unlocked. You were reducing friction, improving returns for merchants and sellers and improving the shopping experience for consumers, not only in the recent past, but looking forward. What are those key areas that you're the most laser-focused on within that broader answer you just gave? 5 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 07, 2020 / 8:45PM, GRPN.OQ - Groupon Inc at UBS Global TMT Conference (Virtual) Aaron Z. Cooper - Groupon, Inc. - Interim CEO Yes. So good. So now I get a chance to sound a little bit like a broken record and drive home some of these key points. So thanks for that. Listen, #1 is expanding inventory. Our customers want to be able to buy more and buy repeatedly. And they don't want restrictions so they can buy it from the same merchant repeatedly, and they can redeem at any time. Inventory is #1, which is why we've kicked off this inventory test in this way. But we do know exactly what our customers and merchants want. Our merchants, they want good economics, why we launched Offers that I just talked about. They want things made easier. That's why we launched our self-service tools, which is Campaign Builder, so that merchants can launch Deals and modify Deals whenever they want. And they can get live really quickly, a lot faster than they've ever been able to get live before. And we've launched Groupon Connect, which allows merchants to be able to bring their own booking technology, as more and more booking technologies connect ours, so they don't have to retrain their staff. And they want additional customers. And for additional customers, what's better? Sponsored listings. I've talked to so many merchants over the years who want more, and we've been able to say no. And now with sponsored listings, we're able to say yes. So just there on the merchant side, we have Groupon Connect, which we launched, which adds to the booking technology. We have Campaign Builder as part of our self-service suite. And we have our sponsored listings, MVP. Well that, along with Offers, really hits the merchant value proposition very hard exactly along the lines of what you've seen from other scaled marketplaces. And why that's important is because that makes it better, easier for merchants to put more on our platform and to get more out of our customers, which is exactly what our customers want on the customer value proposition side, customer value proposition side. Customers want to be able to buy and buy again. And let me give you 1 example. As we launch this inventory test, we had some merchants, power merchants that were really heavy adopters. And I'll give you this example of the merchant I talked to that I mentioned before, that went from having 3 items on our site to 72. And then 1/3 of our sales were coming on things that she never could have added, except for the benefit of having Offers. Now what does that do from a CX standpoint? Now my CX team has got a really exciting problem to solve. How do you represent 72 items when before we only had 1 product to sell? What Offers does is it open up that catalog. It makes it that much more exciting for our customers to have an immersive experience and to be able to buy and buy more. And so the success that we've seen on the merchant side is really influencing our customer road map, which is all about putting that selection out there, making it more convenient and always delivering on the value Groupon's known for. So across the merchant and value -- customer value prop, there is a lot here, but like the key points, are all the things that you'd expect from a scaled marketplace. And for us, we're under optimized, so we just see it as opportunity. Eric James Sheridan - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division - MD and Equity Research Internet Analyst Got it. Okay. That puts a finer point at it. Great. Maybe turning from the repositioning on the product side and the supply side to thinking through the cost structure, as you said in your first answer around what's happened as we've gone through COVID-19 this year. Obviously, you're all about resetting the cost base of the company. Can you give us a little bit of an update on where you are against your broader goals that you announced earlier this year? And how should investors think about any additional progress as we move out of 2020 and into '21? 6 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 07, 2020 / 8:45PM, GRPN.OQ - Groupon Inc at UBS Global TMT Conference (Virtual) Aaron Z. Cooper - Groupon, Inc. - Interim CEO Absolutely. We're really proud of the progress we made here. And now I'll talk about it in a couple of different ways. One, let me hear your answer directly, which is that things are on track exactly with what the cost plans that we announced. And that's really important. This is a strong operating team. And when we commit to something, this is something that we operate very strongly against. The way that we did this is what's important here. We took a clean sheet approach to the organization to determine what a sustainably lower cost structure could look like. This included delayering in material ways. So that's taking big chunks of portions of the company out so that we could move faster. That's changing the operating culture to be a lot more of a performance-oriented culture, with just a different approach to operations and execution. And so while the decisions on the cost reductions are hard, they're setting the foundation not just for more rigorous approach to cost, but this is what an accelerant for us. It's the right people moving a lot faster and legitimately getting more done. And for that type of employee, who we have, and we're building that culture, it's really energizing. And for people starting now, this is the only Groupon they've ever known. They've known this Groupon that comes from a substantially lower-cost structure, which is something that you got to get here to really see the way that people react and how they start to show up. So what it means for us as a business model standpoint, it means that, over time, as we grow, we don't need to step up our expense structure commensurate with that growth, which means that we believe that we have created true leverage. So we're excited about the potential of the model. And these are actions that are really important to us throwing off that EBITDA that I talked about earlier, which, again, at 80% levels can generate more EBITDA than 2019. But we feel good about the team. We feel good about the cost structure and the momentum that we have. Eric James Sheridan - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division - MD and Equity Research Internet Analyst Yes. Maybe pivoting from those broader points on the cost structure. You've talked about that adjusted EBITDA goal and gross profit returning to 90% of pre-COVID levels, again, similar to what I said before. Maybe how should investors be monitoring? What are we looking for there in terms of activity levels to get back to those pre-COVID levels? Is there anything in terms of the products you put in the marketplace now that could produce mix shift differences from what we saw in pre-COVID levels on the gross profit side? Just want to make sure people are analyzing it the right way. Aaron Z. Cooper - Groupon, Inc. - Interim CEO Yes. So these points that we've talked about here are all the key ones, and it's -- and the way you put it together is important. So let me reframe and see if this is helpful. This -- the cost takeout and our belief that a base case recovery of 80% growth in -- 80% recovery of GP puts out more EBITDA than 2019 and 90% puts out more than we've ever seen. That's what we're considering to be this base case recovery. And the intent is to demonstrate the power of the leverage of the model in the way that we've come at it. And now, if you -- let's [create] some data. We already saw some key differentiated verticals recover to 70% and 80% into the summer. And now there's just more and more pent-up demand with the way COVID has hit things. And so we are really confident in our ability to recover, and it's based on the uniqueness of our inventory. That uniqueness of our inventory is something that's an asset for Groupon. That is not going away. And it's something that's always set Groupon apart. So in something like live events, which will probably be on the slower side to recover, given other industries comes back, we're coming back with unique inventory. And that, for our customer, is really important. So again, everything I've just talked about here, this is the base case recovery growth. Now what I'm really excited about is I'm excited about the growth strategy on top of that. So again, here's a couple of ways to think about it. You have the base case growth was just getting to 80% or 90%, throws off very high levels of EBITDA. What's the driver for that? It's core execution on our differentiated supply, which is something we've been 7 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 07, 2020 / 8:45PM, GRPN.OQ - Groupon Inc at UBS Global TMT Conference (Virtual) able to do for years, and of course, moving at the pace of COVID recovery, supporting our merchants and customers as different industries adapt in different ways. And we've been pretty good about doing that just over the period of the last 6, 7, 8 months. But the only thing that is really energizing is that beyond these higher levels of EBITDA, we think that the growth strategy is something that's been staring us in the face, and it's really ours to go out and execute on. And that's why I laid out the value proposition so clearly. That's why we laid out the analogy to other growth marketplaces and advertising platforms. Because, for us, it's increasingly straightforward as to our path to execution and our overall approach, which means putting the right inventory, executing on the customer and merchant experience. And overall then changing that customer behavior so that when she shows up, she knows that she can buy again and buy more services from the merchant. And that's what the growth strategy is based upon, and that's the key to our focus. Eric James Sheridan - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division - MD and Equity Research Internet Analyst Got it. And maybe following up on that. Another area that is similar to the transition of Goods that I find investors really struggle with is Groupon went public as a company that sort of reported user, shoppers, and there's a lot of puts and takes in some of the numbers you report. Obviously, there's about 8 million customers within the Goods business. There's been COVID-19 impacts this year. So I think first, I would love to maybe ask a 2-part question. One, when you look back at what you've seen in 2020 what should investors understand about the headwinds and tailwinds that you're facing with respect to growth on the customer side of the equation in the business. And then the second part would be against all of these initiatives you've talked about, Aaron. How should investors be thinking about putting some of those elements of 2020 in the rearview mirror? And thinking about the type of investments you want to make and what sustained customer growth could look like in '21 and beyond? Aaron Z. Cooper - Groupon, Inc. - Interim CEO Thanks. So a couple of things. Let's -- to put it on the table. Obviously, COVID, the impacts have we've suppressed our level of marketing and have that impacts on our customer base. Our Live Events business, along with Live Events around the world, I mean it's on pause to a significant degree. Those are customers have always loved Groupon for the uniqueness of our offering, but that offering is not something that people are going to right now. So again, as different business lines come back, it gives us the opportunity to spend marketing into them and to help these merchants and customers get out and do more. Just like what Groupon did, and you referenced it back in 9 -- 2009, 2010, coming out of that economic downturn Groupon showed up in a big way. So the analogy here, I think, is right and important. Here's what we've seen kind of since the outset. One, from the get go, we thought we were doing more commerce than we expected to be doing even back in April and May. And then what we found is it was our best customers that are staying with us and staying the most engaged. We then saw these verticals come back and come back again to 70% and 80%. And what that means is that customers are comfortable not everybody, but a lot of them are getting increasingly comfortable. And we sort of saw a very consistent recovery right up through the recent, I guess, second or third wave here. Now as you look at that, it's driven by the uniqueness of our inventory. So with our business, you're talking about the very fragmented Health, Beauty, Wellness space, a very fragmented Leisure space, fragmented Home and Auto, fragmented in your unique inventory and Groupon Live and our food and drink business. And for these, just to come back, again, this is the base recovery with the lower cost structure that allows us to be more profitable. And so that asset that we have, which our customers have always loved, we think is what's going to be the thing and what we've seen to be the thing to bring them back. Now beyond that is this growth strategy, and this is where we're already starting to watch closely early adopters because we have these 4 test markets, and we're watching how the early adopters behave even within COVID. 8 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 07, 2020 / 8:45PM, GRPN.OQ - Groupon Inc at UBS Global TMT Conference (Virtual) And so we know there's opportunity based already on the merchant's response. We know we're hunting in the right spot. We know what our customers have told us. And so by adding more inventory that the customers can buy and buy again, helps us get after that huge opportunity in a way that we actually don't need to return to the exact same customer base we had before to capture that value. There's a lot of share of wallet here. When I say that there's hundreds of millions of dollars of opportunity just within repeat purchase from Health, Beauty, Wellness. I'm talking about something as simple as I went to a merchant to get a manicure and I went back for the manicure. I'm not even yet talking about. I would then want to get to pedicure, I want to get a facial, other services as well. And so -- and that's 1 manicure. People have more than 2 manicures in a year. So there's a lot of opportunity within our platform and commerce that we can do just in our health, beauty, wellness vertical. So we're looking at both the recovery scenario and our growth scenario as being really exciting. And then to get after one of your questions in there, we'll spend back on marketing. As we see demand start to recover, we're going to spend into that demand to energize our customer base. Obviously, reduced marketing levels have had an impact on our customer base. But with the uniqueness in our inventory and the investment we're making to be able to capture more of the lifetime value, that capturing that in our marketing dynamic is going to be key to our focus over the coming quarters. Eric James Sheridan - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division - MD and Equity Research Internet Analyst Great. And just following on that piece there at the end about investing in customer growth. Can you talk a little bit about your focus around increasing breadth and depth of the marketplace via partnerships, how you think about certain verticals or national brands as a way to sort of either bring new interesting inventory to the platform and/or amplify the customer growth potential of the platform when you look out into '21 and beyond? Aaron Z. Cooper - Groupon, Inc. - Interim CEO Absolutely. I mean customers love the brands they love, and they love our big national brands, and they also love local favorites. We've got a lot of first-party supply and third-party supply that falls into each of these different buckets. Now you asked about partnerships. So one big form of partnerships we have is partners that add a lot of inventory, big catalogs of inventory. They come on as market rate inventory. And for us, that helps us fill out the store. It gives customers really good quality inventory to buy and often book. While our first-party inventory is absolutely our main focus, we'll continue to partner with suppliers that bring great brands, and we've put great brands directly to bring more quality inventory to the Groupon marketplace. It's a catalyst. Great brands speaks so well to customers, and it's something that come to count on us for. Eric James Sheridan - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division - MD and Equity Research Internet Analyst Great. Okay. That's great stuff. Maybe zooming out now, one more big-picture topic I wanted to touch on. I think a lot of investors I talked to have a sense of Groupon in the U.S., but Groupon is an international business. Maybe talk a little bit -- a couple of years ago, before you joining in this role that you're in now, Groupon went through a period where it went through its international portfolio, realigned it against its longer-term goals. Maybe you could just give investors a sense who are a little less familiar with Groupon. Where did the international assets sit within Groupon right now? And how do you think there is or unique opportunities or challenges that you're trying to unlock or sell for with some of those international markets versus the domestic market? 9 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 07, 2020 / 8:45PM, GRPN.OQ - Groupon Inc at UBS Global TMT Conference (Virtual) Aaron Z. Cooper - Groupon, Inc. - Interim CEO Yes, you're going to see some easy analogies here, but -- because, again, we're such a differentiated business. We're a differentiated business in our international markets as well. And we know that there's a lot of potential. Our philosophy here is really three-fold, which is 1 on exit countries where we just don't see the potential for growth and scale or the complexity is too large. In Q3, just so we can name it here, we did exit New Zealand and Japan. And at this point, we feel good about our country footprint. So with the remaining countries, we're going to invest in markets we have the absolute most potential to grow in scale. And for other markets, we'll rightsize the cost structure and run for positive EBITDA and cash flow. The invest for scale, you should think about that in a way that just follows our -- the strategy that we've talked about in North America. We think it should follow -- there'll be some tweaks that we need to make, but there's a lot there that should be directly analogous. So as we roll out learnings across the United States, and in some of these key countries, you'll see -- you'll look to see us do the same exact thing. And so that similarity of the playbook is another key point of leverage, one that's focused on winning in local, with strong supply in a modern marketplace. Eric James Sheridan - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division - MD and Equity Research Internet Analyst Got it. And then whether it's a comment about the domestic business or some of those international markets you just had -- you just spoke about, maybe help frame the way you think about competition for Groupon. What you've talked, as we've spoken here today, about some of the differentiators about either on the inventory side or the type of customer you have. But just give us a sense of who Groupon competes with? And how you think about aligning the business and the platform against that competition over the medium or long term? Aaron Z. Cooper - Groupon, Inc. - Interim CEO Sure. I'll kind of break out some of the dimensions that we just talked about. I think that will be helpful. One, with Groupon, we bring incremental demand. Demand you cannot get from a platform that does not have the connection that we have with our customers. So for our merchants, this is really exciting. For our customers, we have exciting inspiration. And for our merchants, we drive incremental demand to the tune of billions of dollars in local sales each year. So yes, we do have, broadly speaking, competition across our various verticals, everything from -- obviously, our Goods business to our Travel business. But then you get into our Local business, whether it's Live Events or Food or Home and Auto. There's different players in each of those different spaces, but no company has the breadth of transactable inventory that we have across the local space, tens of thousands of Health, Beauty, Wellness merchants. And for our marketplace, that's what the energy comes from. Additionally, we have a no low-risk model for merchants. There's no CPC or CPM. It's -- there's a rev share component that they pay. And so you list on our platform. And if you don't sell, you don't pay. So it's really low-risk for merchants, which is something else that's exciting, especially in an era like this, where you want to make sure you get the sale for your advertising dollar. And now what we're doing is we're giving these merchants across all of these different segments more ways to interact that are just proven, again, it speaks to the under optimization of our marketplace or, call it, the opportunity. We're putting out offers, which lowers the cost, lowers the cost substantially. So that you can put inventory on our platform at no greater cost than any other place that you would put your inventory. Additionally, self-service offering. This is something that merchants are used to from advertising platforms and marketplaces. And now they can do that same thing on Groupon, it just lowers the barrier and makes it easier. And then for merchants who want more, also something you see on other scaled marketplace, we're starting to launch sponsored listings. So the merchants could pay more to get more. 10 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 07, 2020 / 8:45PM, GRPN.OQ - Groupon Inc at UBS Global TMT Conference (Virtual) And so we think that we have an opportunity here to become the always-on marketing channel for these merchants. And again, I would say, led by the categories where we are most differentiated. Eric James Sheridan - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division - MD and Equity Research Internet Analyst Great. And you've hit upon a lot of key themes and thoughts today, Aaron. Maybe I want to put a bow on it in the last couple of minutes. We always get asked about the balance sheet of Groupon, how you think about capital allocation. But clearly, it seems like against your broader goals, you have a lot of investments you want to make. So in the conversations between the management and the Board, just give us a sense of how we should be thinking about the top priorities, short to medium term, given this opportunity set for capital allocation over maybe the next 1 or 2 years? And how you think about capital allocation, zooming out into the medium term, maybe over the next 2 to 5 years, and we'll try to wrap it up on that. Aaron Z. Cooper - Groupon, Inc. - Interim CEO Sounds good. So kind of straightforward, I guess, we're -- I hope soon emerging from COVID, and we're really focused on our strategy. So with that backdrop as context, Groupon, in its history, had a balanced capital allocation strategy that's included investing in the business, M&A and returning value to shareholders via share buybacks, for example. Right now, I mean, you have an open-minded management team that's always looking for ways to create value for its shareholders. And we think that our greatest opportunity to create value is by focusing on our current strategy, which I've just talked about, and all the logic for those proof points. And that means we're turning this marketplace to growth. With $1 trillion total addressable market, we just see so much potential and are energized about the strategy that we've laid out and are systematically executing on. Eric James Sheridan - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division - MD and Equity Research Internet Analyst Great. Well, I think we're right up on time. Aaron, thank you so much for being a part of UBS Global TMT Conference this year. From me and my team, we wish you and your family a good set of holidays as we put a close on 2020, and we look forward to all the exciting things ahead for Groupon in 2021. So with that, thanks to all the clients for joining this webcast. Thanks again to both investors and Groupon for being flexible with some of the issues you have with video and audio. I'm being told we're going to be [sure] of the app by tomorrow. So Aaron, thanks a lot. Happy holidays and look forward to catch up soon. Aaron Z. Cooper - Groupon, Inc. - Interim CEO Happy holidays. Thanks for your time. Bye. Eric James Sheridan - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division - MD and Equity Research Internet Analyst Take care, everyone. Have a great night. 11 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 07, 2020 / 8:45PM, GRPN.OQ - Groupon Inc at UBS Global TMT Conference (Virtual) DISCLAIMER Refinitiv reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes. In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized. THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES REFINITIV OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS. 2020, Refinitiv. All Rights Reserved. 13537786-2020-12-07T22:54:19.917 12 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 07, 2020 / 8:45PM, GRPN.OQ - Groupon Inc at UBS Global TMT Conference (Virtual)
REFINITIV STREETEVENTS EDITED TRANSCRIPT GRPN.OQ - Groupon Inc at Barclays Global Technology, Media and Telecommunications Conference (Virtual) EVENT DATE/TIME: DECEMBER 10, 2020 / 2:00PM GMT REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS Aaron Z. Cooper Groupon, Inc. - Interim CEO CONFERENCE CALL PARTICIPANTS Deepak Mathivanan Barclays Bank PLC, Research Division - Research Analyst PRESENTATION Deepak Mathivanan - Barclays Bank PLC, Research Division - Research Analyst Great. Good morning, everybody. My name is Deepak Mathivanan, and I'm the intent analyst here at Barclays. And we're super excited to have Aaron Cooper from Groupon joining us today. Aaron, thanks for joining us. Aaron Z. Cooper - Groupon, Inc. - Interim CEO Thanks so much for having me. Deepak Mathivanan - Barclays Bank PLC, Research Division - Research Analyst Great. So yes, we have about 25 minutes. I'll go ahead and get started with a list of questions, and we'll go right into it. QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS Deepak Mathivanan - Barclays Bank PLC, Research Division - Research Analyst Great. So the first topic, which obviously is in everybody's mind, is about 2021. Local was one of the categories that struggled a little bit during COVID and there has been some uneven recovery since then. Obviously, the news of vaccine is a huge development, particularly for companies in travel or hospitality, Local side of the things. So how are you thinking about 2021? Clearly, it feels like Local could be one of the categories that comes back pretty swiftly once we have consumer adoption of vaccine in place. Aaron Z. Cooper - Groupon, Inc. - Interim CEO Thanks. And you're absolutely right. This is absolutely on everybody's mind. And obviously, you can only imagine that the Groupon community, our employees, our customers and merchants are energized by the momentum here towards a vaccine. What we've seen demonstrates to us that Local commerce is really resilient. And we already observed that earlier during this year, even in the spring, where we saw customers already coming back throughout the spring and summer. A couple of the examples that I'll point to where we saw a recovery happen really quickly was in beauty and wellness, which recovered to north of 70% by the end of Q3. And also, our home and auto vertical, which recovered to north of 80% into the summer. And what we see is, we see things playing out differently by geo and by vertical. I mentioned health, beauty, wellness and home and auto, which are recovering on the faster side. And of course, we believe things like live events, big concerts and sporting events, that might take a little bit more time. For us, because of the diverse supply we have, we have the ability to pivot and surface relevant supply to our customers, which is a strength of ours and what they count on us for. 2 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 10, 2020 / 2:00PM, GRPN.OQ - Groupon Inc at Barclays Global Technology, Media and Telecommunications Conference (Virtual) So overall, we see customers and merchants are adapting during the pandemic based on what's safe and comfortable and I expect that to happen in a recovery and into people starting to get vaccinated. But for me, I can tell you, for example, last night, I bought a Groupon for takeout and delivery for a local restaurant when maybe before I would have dined in. And a week or 2 ago, I went on a scavenger hunt with my family. We were out in Chicago, down by the bean. It was a great COVID-friendly activity. We did for a couple of hours, incredibly numerable. I also got a car wash. All things that we see our customers adapting to over this period of time. For the team over this period of time, we've been executing on our strategy that's designed to improve the customer, merchant value proposition. So that when customers come back into this recovery, they're coming back to a new experience with more breadth and depth of inventory than ever before. And as we think about how Groupon shows up for local merchants into this recovery, this is really important because Groupon is a no risk option. There's no CPC, there's no CPM. Merchants only pay Groupon for performance which when you're watching your financials like any small business should, that's really important. Deepak Mathivanan - Barclays Bank PLC, Research Division - Research Analyst Got it. I was going to ask a little bit more about that as well. So you obviously have launched a pretty big initiative and have been doing it in some of the test markets already. Maybe share a little bit of thoughts on how you think about the milestones for those initiatives in 2021? Are there specific goals in terms of how you want to expand supply? And then are there any KPIs like conversion that you track that gives you inputs on, what to expect for 2021? Aaron Z. Cooper - Groupon, Inc. - Interim CEO Thanks for asking me. I mean, this is exactly the team's obsession, and we're really energized to continue executing on our growth strategy in 2021. Our priorities next year remain laser-focused on our 2 strategic initiatives: number one, and this is in order, expanding inventory; and number two, modernizing our market place. We've removed all distractions, and we're extremely focused organization now and we have been all year. And you should expect that to continue in 2021. The most important work we're doing right now is getting signal our inventory test. And I think what might just be helpful, and so, I'll take a step back for one, second because for folks newer to the Groupon name and story, the context I find here really helps folks come along quickly. What Groupon has been known for, for years is inspiration. When Groupons suggests something, just like Groupon suggested this scavenger hunt to me a week ago, people buy it. We see so many times where people aren't even thinking about the category or the specific item for this specific merchant until Groupon suggested it. This inspiration has -- is led to billions of dollars of Local commerce. Now if you look at other businesses, a lot of them are destination. You think of something and then you go to a site or app to fulfill that. What we're doing now is we are complementing our inspiration business with a destination business. And let me explain you why that's so important. Our inspiration business cost merchants as much as $0.70 on the dollar. And that limits our value proposition. It limits our access to the $1 trillion TAM in the local marketplace that we compete in. And so we want to expand that. The way it works is if a merchant pays 35% to us and then a 35% discount, that's a $0.70 all-in cost on every dollar. Other marketplaces in the way you've seen them grow and add platforms start with very low take rates. They achieve supply density on these low take rates. And then they worry about growing monetization after they've achieved a certain level of commerce and tipping point threshold. So for Groupon, in this sense, from a destination standpoint, we kind of built our marketplace backwards. 3 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 10, 2020 / 2:00PM, GRPN.OQ - Groupon Inc at Barclays Global Technology, Media and Telecommunications Conference (Virtual) So that's what we're getting after right now. We're adding this. Customers tell us they want more supply that they can buy repeatedly, which means there's no more new customer restrictions. And for merchants to add that, to add all of their items, not just the manicure, but the pedicure, the facial, the eyebrows, and for have customers come back and come back repeatedly, they want a lower price. So what we've done is we've taken our core deals product which is this product that has done billions of dollars of local commerce, and we've complemented it with our offers product, which is lower cost to the merchant, a much lower all-in cost. So that merchants can put their full catalog of inventory on our site and feel great when customers buy and buy again, which then makes the -- our catalog fuller so that when customers are searching, they always have something to buy. And only a third-party marketplace supply that fills out the store. To our inventory test, we had 2 goals. Goal #1 was to increase supply by 25% to 50%. And we exceeded the high end of that range, as we said about a month ago. So over the 50% range. Now we're focused on the customer value proposition and getting the signal there. The goal that we set at the end of our 6-month test is low single-digit percentage point improvements in units and billings. We're going to share more about the next steps in what we think scaling it looks like when we report in February. But I can tell you, we're already moving on things that we see as no brainers. For example, removing those restrictions on deals that means customers can only buy them once. And so while expanding inventory is absolutely priority one, we've also, over this period of time, made good progress on priority 2, which is modernizing our marketplace for customers and merchants. And happy to answer any questions about that as well. Deepak Mathivanan - Barclays Bank PLC, Research Division - Research Analyst No, makes sense. Okay. From a category standpoint, obviously, Local is crucial to your business. Goods also makes a lot of sense. What about things like travel? Do you think there's opportunities to kind of optimize the right category or even by vertical from a product standpoint, mix over the next maybe 6 to 12 months? Aaron Z. Cooper - Groupon, Inc. - Interim CEO Absolutely. And just so we always name it, and any time I talk about any other category, I'm going to punctuate it with winning for Groupon is on the other side of winning in Local. But I'll ask you, like what other marketplace can you buy (inaudible) and scavenger hunts in sizes that we can get away in physical goods? I mean, that is Groupon. And our diverse supply has helped us over the pandemic as we see a role for our each vertical. And cross category, merchandising opportunities have been important over this period of time to bring a full Groupon experience for our customers. You asked specifically about Travel. Now this is a business that has a soft spot in my heart, since I work in the travel industry earlier in my career. And what I'll tell you is, is that when customers want to travel and they know where they want to go, there's a lot of places they can go to find that. What we do is we inspire them. And we see in the data, upwards of 80% of our customers weren't thinking about the location, and upwards of 90% weren't thinking about the exact property. Similar statistics that I gave you before about our local deals. That is a big deal for our hoteliers they use us as a core part of their revenue management throughout the year. Now that said, I'll say it again, we're most focused on Local. And within Local, local experiences, which for us, we're really focus on things to do in beauty and wellness, this supply is the most differentiated and fragmented and where we believe we're best positioned for growth. So you'll see us take advantage of all of our supply, but this is where we're investing, where our strategy is focused. And again, I'll punctuate again for Groupon, it's all about winning in Local. 4 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 10, 2020 / 2:00PM, GRPN.OQ - Groupon Inc at Barclays Global Technology, Media and Telecommunications Conference (Virtual) Deepak Mathivanan - Barclays Bank PLC, Research Division - Research Analyst Got it. Got it. No. Okay. Maybe I'll just ask one near-term obligatory questions about 4Q. Clearly, in the last month or so, many states in the U.S. and even in some other international markets have pushed for aggressive shutdowns to control the second wave. How are the inputs to your business responding to these? I mean, clearly, there is demand side, but there's also a supply side, which probably is now, of course, to stop servicing. So can you talk a little bit about that? Aaron Z. Cooper - Groupon, Inc. - Interim CEO Absolutely. Within the United States, there is different trends state by state, market by market. We're watching them closely. And I mean daily by vertical, by market, by customer segment and merchant segment. And I'll tell you, at the highest level, there's nothing I can tell you here that's going to be overly surprising or really all that new. Markets where there's little to no government restrictions are behaving very differently than markets that have more restrictions. And where the culture is responding differently to COVID. Now what we're seeing in our model is that our model gives us some resiliency here based on our geographic diversity. Now into the holiday season, I'll tell you that we felt really well prepared. And one thing that we saw that was encouraging is that while we were flexible using our inventory mix across all of our categories, our local categories led by health, beauty wellness, actually still made up 7 out of the 10 most search core terms in our marketplace over Black Friday and Cyber Monday. So while their short-term is certainly going to be volatile and it has been, what we're seeing gives us confidence. And we're really focused on this strategy that I talked about, so that when customers and merchants really start to come back into this recovery, they're coming back to this improved Groupon that has this expanded value prop on both sides of our marketplace. And that's, again, just our absolute obsession. Deepak Mathivanan - Barclays Bank PLC, Research Division - Research Analyst Got it. No, that makes a lot of sense. Okay. Yes. I mean, I think certainly, 4Q is going to be a very uneven quarter for a lot of businesses. And it will be interesting to see how the early part of next year also response. Okay. And switching gears a little bit. You talked a little bit on this initially. As you kind of onboard more supply and as you unlock some of the frequency. How should we think about the monetization model for Groupon evolve? Do you think there should be -- there could be potential volatility in take rate? Or there are any other variables where you expect it to affect the P&L? Aaron Z. Cooper - Groupon, Inc. - Interim CEO So overall, when we look at monetization, we -- are you asking specific about our inventory strategy? Was that your question number? Deepak Mathivanan - Barclays Bank PLC, Research Division - Research Analyst Yes. Yes. Aaron Z. Cooper - Groupon, Inc. - Interim CEO Yes. So with our inventory strategy and take rate overall, what's most important here is that this offers product is designed to complement our deal product. And that has really got to be the key here in the way that merchants adopt and use it and the way that we've seen it show up in our model. 5 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 10, 2020 / 2:00PM, GRPN.OQ - Groupon Inc at Barclays Global Technology, Media and Telecommunications Conference (Virtual) Deals get this preferential treatment in our marketplace where they're showing up in e-mail, they come with that high discount, they're used for inspiration. Merchants know how to use them again to drive billion-dollar of commerce. Offer's still out the store. Let me give you an example of -- and this is just a great example of this merchant that I talked to. She had 3 items on our site that were deals. She then adding over 70 items that included a ton of offers because she could now do that and she couldn't do that before. She also unrestricted everything so customers could buy and buy again, which she couldn't do before, and added our booking technology to make it easier for her and for the customers to book. So really, the [tri] effective things that we want to see to improve our marketplace on the merchant side and for the customer value proposition. Now when I talked to her about 2 weeks after she launched this expanded offering. And what we saw was about 1/3 of our sales came in on things that she never would have been able to put on the site before. And the things that weren't necessarily showing up in our email, things that customers had to search for. So complementary to our overall deals product. So what we think about as we see offers as complementary to deals. And then in addition, just like I mentioned, what we've seen from other marketplaces and ad platforms, we can now offer a products such as sponsored listings. What sponsored listings does, is it allows the supply to compete, just like you see on every other ad platform. And so if you and I both run a salon and you run a better salon than me, you can engage in sponsored listings and you could get a preferential placement and take advantage and get more traffic than I can. I've talked to so many merchants over the years, and they say, how can I get more, and we have not had a way to say yes. And now we can say, yes. Yes, you can put all your inventory on our site at a price that works for you. Yes, you can pay to get more. Yes, customers, when you're coming to our site to click there's tough for you to buy. And you clicked on it and we actually let you buy it is opposed to saying, sorry, that's just the first time customers. Yes, yes, yes, across the board. And all in a way that we see as complementary to inspiration business that we've been leading in for years. Deepak Mathivanan - Barclays Bank PLC, Research Division - Research Analyst Got it. And I believe these efforts are still in limited test markets. When should we expect you to kind of push this more broadly? Is there a time line that you're thinking for that? Aaron Z. Cooper - Groupon, Inc. - Interim CEO The real key for us is to talk about what we -- and what we were going to -- obviously going to talk more about this in February, but that we should think about this in 2 ways. One, there's some things that we're just going to roll out where we don't have to wait. We found in our test markets just as part of the inventory part, where we really focus on getting supply over those first 3 months that we could remove restrictions a lot faster and easier than we ever expected. And so we're going to move the fact. That's going to roll out across our business on deals specifically. Also, we are rolling out campaign builder, which is our growing self-service offering. For years, merchants have -- every time they have to make a change with the deal and to add a deal, to add an offer, they have to call the rep, have the e-mail them and go through multiples of -- almost churn on both sides. It's really just -- it makes things difficult. With self-service technology, they can do that themselves. We put the power in the hands of the merchants, we allow our sales team to work on higher leverage activities. And then merchants will invent more ways to do things on our platform. Also sponsored listings will launch as part of self service. So there's a lot of things that we're just going to go with that are absolutely no brainers to get greater leverage out of this business model because, one, the merchants respond so quickly and as customers respond so quickly, but also they're just complete no brainers for the value proposition of the business we're driving to. 6 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 10, 2020 / 2:00PM, GRPN.OQ - Groupon Inc at Barclays Global Technology, Media and Telecommunications Conference (Virtual) As it relates to scaling all the components of the test, I said we'll share more in February. But based on what we can see right now, there's absolutely nothing to suggest that we can scale quickly. Deepak Mathivanan - Barclays Bank PLC, Research Division - Research Analyst That's great. Okay. On the goods side of the business, clearly, you've been migrating into the third-party model. Is the migration now fully done in North America? What are you seeing during the holiday season in terms of both inventory and kind of consumer behavior opposed to migration? Aaron Z. Cooper - Groupon, Inc. - Interim CEO So I'm going to stick to what I told you earlier, when you asked about Goods, and I tell you, winning for Groupon is on the other side of winning in Local. Now there's a role for Goods on our platform. And as Local recovers and we grow Local, Local is what the business is all about. Now we did say -- we made a decision to stay in the Goods category because we recognize we have the opportunity to significantly reduce that cost structure and simplify this business. And then at the height of COVID, it's been an important category to keep customers engaged. Now as it relates to third party, we exited the third quarter with 55% of the North American Goods business migrated to third-party and expect to be substantially migrated in North America by the end of the year, kicking off our international transition in 2021. Deepak Mathivanan - Barclays Bank PLC, Research Division - Research Analyst Got it. Okay. On the cost savings side, obviously, you made some pretty big changes over the past few months, and it sounds like majority of them are kind of fixed costs, which you expect to sustain in 2021, even during periods when demand rebounds. But maybe more specifically, how should we think about the sales force requirements of the business as there's a couple of pieces here, right? One is demand is expected to rebound and more merchants are likely to come out on the platform, but you're also exploring the new initiatives, which you're likely to expand into new markets. So between these moving pieces, what do you think is the right level of investment on sales force and maybe tie it in with the total fixed cost levels for the business. Aaron Z. Cooper - Groupon, Inc. - Interim CEO Absolutely. We're executing on our multiphase restructuring plan, as you noted, which will take $225 million of fixed costs out of the business by 2022, (inaudible) by 2022. And we've rebuilt our organization with fewer layers. That allow us to be nimble and more productive. So which means we're moving faster and we're getting the leverage. This reduced cost structure not only allows for greater EBITDA flow through, but it's especially powerful with success in our strategy because that flow through in EBITDA happens in our base case. Whereas success in our strategy is over and above our base case. So let me give you a little bit of the way to think about that from a math standpoint. A Just -- a recovery to the 80% range of gross profit. And again, I already told you about verticals that recovered 80% this summer, but just a recovery to 80% with the cost takeout has it set EBITDA that's greater than we did in 2019. And a recovery to 90% with the cost takeout, which is on track, would have this business at record EBITDA. Over and above that, our growth strategy is laser-focused on increasing customer share of wallet and expanding purchase frequency. And we believe, based on what we're seeing so far, that we're going to be successful in this effort. So we have 2 ways to grow. It's attracting new customers and driving frequency of our existing customers. And then on the merchant side and what's so important for this value proposition that we've talked about is leverage within the sales team. And there's a couple of things here that you can just kind of do the mental math to suggest, how we get that leverage as we go forward? One, we're ramping self-service, we're wrapping self-service from a pretty low base. 7 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 10, 2020 / 2:00PM, GRPN.OQ - Groupon Inc at Barclays Global Technology, Media and Telecommunications Conference (Virtual) That puts our sales team in a position of a lot higher leverage activities. And two, with our offers product, we're also reducing a barrier to merchants by lowering the cost for some of them to come on the platform to make it easier. Both of these things help us see a path to getting a lot more engagement on the merchant side, as we've already seen in our test markets. And then more engagement on the customer side, again, over and above our base case, which, again, starts off the business at already EBITDA levels higher than 2019, adjacent 80% recovery. Deepak Mathivanan - Barclays Bank PLC, Research Division - Research Analyst Got it. No, that makes a lot of sense. Okay. On the capital allocation front, I mean, I think clearly, when demand recovers, to your point, there will be pretty significant EBITDA on free cash flow generation. Are you thinking about the priorities primarily in terms of shareholder returns? Or are you looking at any M&As? How would you kind of rank all of those priorities? Aaron Z. Cooper - Groupon, Inc. - Interim CEO We have a balanced capital allocation strategy that includes investing in the business, M&A, returning value to shareholders via buybacks. And we're just an open mind in management team that are always looking for ways to create that shareholder value. Now I'll tell you is that there is -- I mean, and you've heard from our -- almost every -- no matter what you asked me, we are just so focused on this strategy they we have been. We see that as our greatest opportunity to create value. And with the $1 trillion total addressable market. And our small share of that, there's just so much potential out there that we (inaudible) ability to unlock and to drive growth for this group. Deepak Mathivanan - Barclays Bank PLC, Research Division - Research Analyst Got it. Okay. On the partnership's front, I mean, clearly, many companies are now exploring subscription offerings. We've seen subscription offerings to be coming in food delivery space now, and we had TripAdvisor CFO talk about subscription offerings, they're exploring. Do you think it makes sense to kind of explore partnerships offering with some of the other players in the category and maybe launch a holistic subscription offering? Or is that something that you would consider doing by yourself? Aaron Z. Cooper - Groupon, Inc. - Interim CEO So again, the key for us is our inventory strategy. Let me explain you why. Our -- there are a lot of different businesses adapting subscription offerings. What's so special about Groupon is the uniqueness of our inventory. That is special, it's special to our customers and it's especially to any strategic partnership we can look forward to. And so that is really priority 1 far and away. From a partnership standpoint our customers love great brands, and we have a lot of partnerships that bring brands to our platform. And that's something that we've always been appreciative of and enabled to send these partners a lot of demand. But we're always looking for opportunities to use our partnerships to accelerate growth. There's lots of potentials out there. You name some examples. There's a lot of other examples out there, but growth achieved strategically and now can be a organic means are both things that we're always considering. Deepak Mathivanan - Barclays Bank PLC, Research Division - Research Analyst Got it. Great. With that, we're out of time. Thank you so much, Aaron, for joining us today, and looking forward to talk to you soon. 8 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 10, 2020 / 2:00PM, GRPN.OQ - Groupon Inc at Barclays Global Technology, Media and Telecommunications Conference (Virtual) Aaron Z. Cooper - Groupon, Inc. - Interim CEO Thank you very much. I appreciate it. Deepak Mathivanan - Barclays Bank PLC, Research Division - Research Analyst All right. Have a great holiday. Aaron Z. Cooper - Groupon, Inc. - Interim CEO You too. DISCLAIMER Refinitiv reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes. In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized. THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES REFINITIV OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS. 2020, Refinitiv. All Rights Reserved. 13537787-2020-12-10T17:39:03 9 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 10, 2020 / 2:00PM, GRPN.OQ - Groupon Inc at Barclays Global Technology, Media and Telecommunications Conference (Virtual)
REFINITIV STREETEVENTS EDITED TRANSCRIPT HRMY.OQ - Harmony Biosciences Holdings Inc at Piper Sandler Healthcare Conference (Virtual)- Pre-recorded Firside Chat EVENT DATE/TIME: NOVEMBER 30, 2020 / 1:35PM GMT REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS John Charles Jacobs Harmony Biosciences Holdings, Inc. - President, CEO & Director CONFERENCE CALL PARTICIPANTS David A. Amsellem Piper Sandler & Co., Research Division - MD & Senior Research Analyst PRESENTATION David A. Amsellem - Piper Sandler & Co., Research Division - MD & Senior Research Analyst Hi, this is David Amsellem from the Piper Sandler specialty pharma team, and we will be spending the next 25 minutes or so chatting with Harmony Biosciences. And with us is CEO, John Jacobs. John, thanks very much for joining us. I wanted to flip it over to you, John, for some quick introductory remarks, and then we can dive right in to what will be a lively discussion given the launch of WAKIX. So John, why don't you take it away? John Charles Jacobs - Harmony Biosciences Holdings, Inc. - President, CEO & Director David, first of all, thank you for the nice introduction, and we appreciate this opportunity to share a little bit more color and context on our launch of WAKIX with Harmony. Our company, for those of you who are new to our story, we were founded in October of 2017. And since then, we built out a company of over 150 employees, and we've launched our first product in the U.S. Market, WAKIX. And we're starting with WAKIX in narcolepsy, although we do see our product as a portfolio and a product opportunity due to its unique mechanism of action, which we can discuss a little bit more later today. We're starting in narcolepsy. And our focus is on rare orphan neurological disorders and helping patients who are so often underserved that are living with those diseases, David. QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS David A. Amsellem - Piper Sandler & Co., Research Division - MD & Senior Research Analyst Great. So I'll start off with a high-level question on the role of WAKIX and specifically in narcolepsy, I should say. So narcolepsy is very much a polypharmacy type of a treatment landscape. So with that in mind, how do you view WAKIX' role over time relative to other mainstay agents such as oxybate or I should say, Xyrem -- low-sodium Xyrem and other wakefulness-promoting agents. What's your general take on the broader role of WAKIX in this space that is admittedly evolving? John Charles Jacobs - Harmony Biosciences Holdings, Inc. - President, CEO & Director It is David. Look, very good question and an important one for patients and health care providers as well. Narcolepsy is a complex disease, and it is a polypharmacy market. Importantly, WAKIX offers a meaningfully differentiated product profile. WAKIX is a unique MOA. It's the first product of its kind to work through histamine in the hypothalamus. It's the first nonscheduled medication from FDA. It's not a stimulant. There's no evidence of withdrawal symptoms or tolerance building up in our clinical trials. And we're seeing WAKIX used in combination with other therapies across the spectrum, whether that's wake-promoting agents and stimulants or oxybate products, et cetera. And it can be used as monotherapy as well. We're seeing both, and we see that as a long-term role because there's so much dissatisfaction in the market, David. 2 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. NOVEMBER 30, 2020 / 1:35PM, HRMY.OQ - Harmony Biosciences Holdings Inc at Piper Sandler Healthcare Conference (Virtual)- Pre-recorded Firside Chat And of who are currently treated in the space, about 3/4 of them have residual symptoms that are not only measurable but negatively impact patients' lives. So there's a high level of dissatisfaction and a lot of need for additional products in the market. And WAKIX fits very nicely to match those unmet needs with our product profile. David A. Amsellem - Piper Sandler & Co., Research Division - MD & Senior Research Analyst Okay. So you mentioned previously that there is quite a significant number of patients. I think it's roughly about [40,000] or so narcolepsy patients who are diagnosed but not treated. Why is that the case? And what's your view on your ability to access these diagnosed patients over time as they cycle through legacy agents like stimulants and modafinil. John Charles Jacobs - Harmony Biosciences Holdings, Inc. - President, CEO & Director David, we're actually sourcing from that pool of patients. And you asked why, it's a question that I asked as well as we really dug deeply into this market when we founded the company. And again, that data, data demonstrates a high level of unmet need and dissatisfaction. So as I said earlier, about 3/4 of patients have residual symptoms. Over 90% of treated patients have expressed dissatisfaction with current therapies, side effects, tolerability issues, scheduling, difficulty getting access to the medication, et cetera. And so many patients have just decided to go it alone and fight the disease without any therapy at all. But WAKIX has been introduced. We're starting to source from that bucket, and we can access those patients as long as they go through the step that is required by managed care. And the vast majority of those 1 to 2 generic step edits and they can get access to WAKIX. David A. Amsellem - Piper Sandler & Co., Research Division - MD & Senior Research Analyst Okay. And I wanted to talk about the payer landscape in a bit, but let's go through some metrics on WAKIX specifically, your metrics on average number of patients who are on drug, and this is bearing in mind that the product launched in late 2019. So I wanted to put that out there. Just average number of patients on drug and how that's been trending and then also unique prescribers and particularly repeat prescribers. Maybe you can walk us through that. John Charles Jacobs - Harmony Biosciences Holdings, Inc. - President, CEO & Director Absolutely. Look, we're very pleased so far with our launch success, David. And it's never ideal to launch a product in the middle of a global pandemic and have that hit in your first quarter of launch or so. But despite that, we're really pleased with the growth. Our average number of patients in Q3 was about 2,200, which represents over a 20% increase from the prior quarter. And that also considers new starts as well as patient behavior like compliance and persistence. It's all baked into that number. And we're very optimistic we can maintain that continued growth. And as COVID lifts, really see the optimal performance in our launch that we believe we're capable of with this product. And when it comes to unique prescribers, very interesting, there's about 8,000 or so physicians that diagnose and treat the majority of narcolepsy patients in the U.S. And once again, we've had great reaction from them in the market, especially with the new cataplexy indication. In fact, we've had over 2,000 unique HCPs prescribe our drug, and that's about 1/4 then of the entire prescribing universe, at least one time, and the vast majority of those are starting to become repeat prescribers as more and more patients come into their therapy choices. David A. Amsellem - Piper Sandler & Co., Research Division - MD & Senior Research Analyst Okay. And I wanted to touch on the mix of patients who are getting WAKIX as monotherapy versus patients who are getting it in combination with oxybate. Maybe talk to what you're seeing in terms of the usage and mix. And I guess the -- there's a couple of ways that I wanted to sort of slice and dice this. One is portion of patients who are taking their -- staying on their background, modafinil or stimulants, a portion of patients who are on background and oxybate? And then what are you seeing in terms of WAKIX and some therapy? 3 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. NOVEMBER 30, 2020 / 1:35PM, HRMY.OQ - Harmony Biosciences Holdings Inc at Piper Sandler Healthcare Conference (Virtual)- Pre-recorded Firside Chat John Charles Jacobs - Harmony Biosciences Holdings, Inc. - President, CEO & Director And David, we're not disclosing the specific percentages by category. But what we're actually seeing is combination therapy across the spectrum. So it's with your gold standard, modafinil plus a stimulant or it's with Xyrem or it's with the combination of all of those. And why is WAKIX profile? There's no PK drug interactions. That's right in our label with the drug. So WAKIX can safely be added on to gold standard combinations or long-established therapy combinations. We are seeing some stimulant sparing behavior over time. So once WAKIX is added into combo, we're seeing quite a large number of patients stop taking or reduced their use of stimulants, which is really great because there are public health indications there that we're very pleased with. So to offer the first and only nonscheduled medication that's not a stimulant is obviously having a benefit to some patients there. David A. Amsellem - Piper Sandler & Co., Research Division - MD & Senior Research Analyst Okay. All right. That's helpful. And then what about the mix of patients who have narcolepsy with cataplexy versus patients who have narcolepsy type 2? I know you've alluded to this in the past, but maybe help us understand where that is right now. And maybe this is a way to talk about your cataplexy label expansion. John Charles Jacobs - Harmony Biosciences Holdings, Inc. - President, CEO & Director Yes, which we're very excited about, David. Excellent question. And what you see in the market, general diagnosis codes, it's about 50-50, type 1 and type 2 when it comes to diagnosis, even though the prevalence is thought to be about 65, 35 or so, it's 50-50 in diagnosis and reality in the U.S. and that's about what we're seeing with WAKIX. So really, in general, it mirrors the marketplace. I think it's important to realize for everyone who's maybe some of the folks who are new to this market, that every patient with narcolepsy has excessive daytime sleepiness. And that was our first indication when we were first approved by FDA last year. That's the cardinal symptom, whether they have type 1 or type 2 narcolepsy, that's the core symptom. Type 1, they also have cataplexy, but we were on label for all of those patients since our launch. But we are excited about the new cataplexy indication, David, and we've had a very good response from patients and physicians. And there are some physicians we were seeing that might have been on the fence before, brand-new drug that are starting to get more excited about using WAKIX and trying it for the first time now that we also have the cataplexy indication. David A. Amsellem - Piper Sandler & Co., Research Division - MD & Senior Research Analyst And I wanted to switch gears and talk about the payer landscape. You alluded to it earlier in the discussion, but I wanted to dive a little more deeply. What portion of commercial lives have access? And can you elaborate on the kind of step edits and prior offs that we're typically seeing? And as part of that question, do you see any step edits through -- in other brand's product? I think that would also be important to cover. John Charles Jacobs - Harmony Biosciences Holdings, Inc. - President, CEO & Director Yes. Yes, we do. But the vast majority of lives, it's only 1 or 2 generic step edits to get WAKIX. So the vast minority. Right now, we have over 180 million U.S. lives that have access to WAKIX, and that's across commercial Medicaid and Medicare plans. So we've had some, we think, remarkable managed care penetration and access for the product. And so far, no negative formulary decisions to date, meaning an NDC block, et cetera. So very good access to WAKIX so far. We're very pleased with it, and we're even more excited with the new cataplexy indication that, that may happen both the near term and the long term to be protective for the product and to help even more patients have access to it. 4 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. NOVEMBER 30, 2020 / 1:35PM, HRMY.OQ - Harmony Biosciences Holdings Inc at Piper Sandler Healthcare Conference (Virtual)- Pre-recorded Firside Chat David A. Amsellem - Piper Sandler & Co., Research Division - MD & Senior Research Analyst And so you're not seeing any patients having to step through, say, SUNOSI, which is another new narcolepsy agent, but has a very different price point for reasons we don't need to get into. But you're not seeing anything like that? John Charles Jacobs - Harmony Biosciences Holdings, Inc. - President, CEO & Director I wouldn't say we're not seeing anything. There are a small portion of plans that are requiring one branded step, David, but the vast majority are not. The vast majority are 1 to 2 generics. David A. Amsellem - Piper Sandler & Co., Research Division - MD & Senior Research Analyst Okay. So I wanted to speak about the COVID impact or the impact of the pandemic on the business is something that you've talked to a number of times. So I guess, as a starting point, can you -- maybe I'll ask the question generally is, can you talk about what aspects of the WAKIX commercialization, the rollout are being hit the hardest as a result of the pandemic? John Charles Jacobs - Harmony Biosciences Holdings, Inc. - President, CEO & Director Well, I'd say, look, in general, the pandemic has affected our entire industry, right, whether it's physicians, patients and companies and how each of those groups interact with one another. And I think most companies, if not all, in our industry, have seen some impact on their ability to generate top line demand because of less connectivity with their sales teams and physician office staff, et cetera, and also on persistency, compliance rates and all those different factors. So I think it's on the top on demand and also on retention. And patients' relationship with their medicines and with their doctors has been altered temporarily by the pandemic. The way that they take their meds, the way that they're getting counseled on meds, whether they see the nursing staff or not for reminders, all of those things can have an impact on drug uptake, utilization and compliance rates, et cetera. David A. Amsellem - Piper Sandler & Co., Research Division - MD & Senior Research Analyst Yes. So do you think that the -- speaking of persistence rates, I mean, this is a -- again, a polypharmacy market, there's a lot of switching. And do you think that persistence rates, in general, have been lower than what they would be? If it will be lower the pandemic, and specifically, your physicians rates lower on WAKIX than what you anticipated because of the pandemic? John Charles Jacobs - Harmony Biosciences Holdings, Inc. - President, CEO & Director I think the way to think about it is that, again, that patient's relationship with their med has changed for most pharma companies. And though we're not disclosing our specific persistence or DC rates, the way to think about it, I think, David, for everyone, is prior to the pandemic, DC rates for drugs -- a publicly available data indicates DC rates for all the drugs in this category were between 30% to 50%. And WAKIX is in that range. And you figure WAKIX with a really good profile, excellent tolerability, nonscheduled, right, might be in the middle to the lower end of that range. But certainly, certainly, COVID has put pressure on any medication, in general, you'd have to think within that range and on that range itself when it comes to compliance and persistency. A big factor in that, David, is unemployment, right? And we've seen them lose their jobs and then lose their health insurance. Importantly, Harmony is a patient-centric organization, and we have a patient assistance program in place. And as long as patients meet our eligibility criteria, they can get the product at no cost if they've lost their insurance or they're unable to get it from us. 5 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. NOVEMBER 30, 2020 / 1:35PM, HRMY.OQ - Harmony Biosciences Holdings Inc at Piper Sandler Healthcare Conference (Virtual)- Pre-recorded Firside Chat David A. Amsellem - Piper Sandler & Co., Research Division - MD & Senior Research Analyst Okay. So now let's talk about that a little more. You've talked about subsidization of cost of drug as a headwind. In other words, impacting your net sales. Can you give us some more color on the nature of that impact? You don't have to quantify it, but talk how impactful that's been, not just in 3Q, but as we think about 4Q and early 2021. John Charles Jacobs - Harmony Biosciences Holdings, Inc. - President, CEO & Director It's a great question. And I think it's helpful for any investors thinking about investing in pharma companies, whether they're launching a drug or already selling drugs that, in general, publicly available information would indicate about 3% to 5% in general is a number that's a good planning number for patient assistance programs in general. That's pre pandemic in normal times. Now we saw unemployment rates, and I checked it again, I check the stats each month on it, but they were as high as 15% or 16% in the United States during the pandemic. And so those patients are losing their insurance, unable to necessarily get medication. So you could see some companies might be experiencing 2x or 3x the normal level of demand in their patient assistance programs. And it's hard to predict how long that will last, David. But as will lift out of the pandemic, patients will go back on employment, go back on their insurance, and we work with our patients. We sustain them on our path. And then as they get reemployed, we work with them to get covered by their insurance for WAKIX again. We've already seen that start in some cases, though. David A. Amsellem - Piper Sandler & Co., Research Division - MD & Senior Research Analyst okay. So the idea here is that as the pandemic eases, those patients where you're subsidizing, but in some cases, the full cost of drug, ultimately will flip to being paying customers in 2021. That's your expectation? John Charles Jacobs - Harmony Biosciences Holdings, Inc. - President, CEO & Director Yes. A portion of those patients would, yes. Some would be eligible for the PAP regardless of the pandemic, right, just because they already meet the criteria. Others may fade away. But those who stay on the medication, it's working well for them. They're tolerating it well, and they become reemployed, yes, they would flip back. David A. Amsellem - Piper Sandler & Co., Research Division - MD & Senior Research Analyst Okay. So what portion of your sales organization right now are doing their sales cost live versus virtually? Can you talk about how that's changed or hasn't changed over these past few months? John Charles Jacobs - Harmony Biosciences Holdings, Inc. - President, CEO & Director Well, we don't have that broken down specifically, but I would say it depends on the region of the country. They've been where each state is and its process of lockdown. We've seen states open up and physician offices open up and some of our reps are able to go out and make some face-to-face calls. And then we've seen those same states shut back down when they've had a resurgence or an issue. And also, we've had -- there has been hurricanes and wildfires and other things that have affected large pockets of geography down South and out West, et cetera. So it's really dependent on the geography. Importantly, our team made a very good pivot, though, to using a digital platform, use Aviva platform, and we can interact with physicians on these machines that we all have a great habit of using all the time. Our cell phones, our iPads, our laptops. So a physician could be at his or her home walking around their living room and interact with a rep on the phone just like we are here on Zoom. But still, it's not a replacement for face-to-face. 6 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. NOVEMBER 30, 2020 / 1:35PM, HRMY.OQ - Harmony Biosciences Holdings Inc at Piper Sandler Healthcare Conference (Virtual)- Pre-recorded Firside Chat And the last point I'll make there, David, is when the salesperson enters an office face-to-face, they're interacting with that entire staff. From the people at the front desk to the nurses to the folks who handle insurance to the doctor. And that's very helpful in a product launch, and you lose a bit of that office connectivity, even if you're getting some of the staff for the physicians face-to-face digitally. So digital is something we'll continue to weave into our mix regardless of the pandemic. And I think we've learned a lot and done well with it, but it's certainly not a replacement. It's not optimal versus live face-to-face selling. David A. Amsellem - Piper Sandler & Co., Research Division - MD & Senior Research Analyst Okay. I wanted to look further ahead and get your thoughts on the role of WAKIX in the narcolepsy landscape that's going to evolve. You've got Axsome's norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors. You've got reboxetine. You have orexin agonist, Takeda has one that's in earlier stages of development. So as the space becomes more varied, how do you envision the role of WAKIX evolving? John Charles Jacobs - Harmony Biosciences Holdings, Inc. - President, CEO & Director Look, excellent question, David. First of all, any time a new medication comes in to help patients with a rare disease, it's actually a good thing for all of us. And having additional products and investment in this market, given the low diagnosis rate, I mean, it's thought to be that over 165,000 patients are potentially living with narcolepsy in the United States, yet only 72,000 or so are diagnosed. And even less, they're actually taking treatment. So there's plenty of room to grow the market. And despite all the available treatments to date, up until the launch of WAKIX, there's so much unmet need in this marketplace and dissatisfaction with long-established therapies that there's a lot of room. Now that being said, we believe WAKIX is clearly differentiated even from those other products that are coming forward. It's the only product to work through histamine in the brain, inverse agonism and antagonism of the H3 receptor in the CNS. It's quite unique. It's a novel MOA. It's nonscheduled, first and only in the U.S. for that and is only the second product indicated for both EDS and cataplexy. So we're extremely pleased with the product's ability to really be, if you will, a portfolio in a product. And that's important to understand for -- especially for those folks who are new to the Harmony story, is that we're starting in narcolepsy, but Harmony is not a sleep company. And we're not a narcolepsy company. We're a company that's focused on rare orphan neurological disorders and helping patients who are living with those diseases. We're starting in narcolepsy with WAKIX, but we're already underway, David, as you know, with plans to expand the utility of WAKIX in our label to new patient populations, including Prader-Willi syndrome and myotonic dystrophy, and we're considering additional indications beyond that as well. David A. Amsellem - Piper Sandler & Co., Research Division - MD & Senior Research Analyst Okay. Before we get into that, and I did want to cover that in a few minutes we have left, do you think that a more crowded narcolepsy landscape with more entrants, do you think that makes for a somewhat tougher payer landscape? Or do you think that given that this is a relatively rare disease but a highly underserved treatment landscape, the payer landscape is unlikely to change dramatically in the context of more entrants? John Charles Jacobs - Harmony Biosciences Holdings, Inc. - President, CEO & Director I'd never say that a payer landscape is easy, especially nowadays in pharmaceuticals. The payers are important partners to us, and they help us to provide access to medications to patients. That's why we believe getting the cataplexy indication, David, was so important for WAKIX. Some of those new entrants you mentioned may have an indication for cataplexy. And if we had only had an EDS indication, that might have made it a bit more challenging in the future with payers, but the fact that we secured that indication early without having to do another clinical trial now with FDA reversing its decision in our favor, that's great news for Harmony. We're very excited about it. And we think that helps to moat the business, if you will, even as new entrants come onto the marketplace. 7 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. NOVEMBER 30, 2020 / 1:35PM, HRMY.OQ - Harmony Biosciences Holdings Inc at Piper Sandler Healthcare Conference (Virtual)- Pre-recorded Firside Chat David A. Amsellem - Piper Sandler & Co., Research Division - MD & Senior Research Analyst Okay. So let's move on to your expansion opportunities. And as you alluded to, you're looking -- you're running proof-of-concept studies in EDS associated with Prader-Willi syndrome and EDS associated with myotonic dystrophy. I wanted to start with Prader-Willi syndrome and just get your sense of how many of these -- what portion of these patients are taking stimulants or modafinil for their EDS? I mean -- or is it even addressed in these patients in any significant way these days? John Charles Jacobs - Harmony Biosciences Holdings, Inc. - President, CEO & Director It's a good question, David. What I will say about PWS is we're confident that WAKIX has a good opportunity to succeed there with an EDS indication in Prader-Willi syndrome patients. And why is that? Those patients uniquely, there's a subset of those patients, a fairly large subset that have orexin depletion. And that's mental to patients with narcolepsy as well. So that same -- that same target, that same reason to believe that WAKIX would work on a narcolepsy patient to help with EDS is there, we believe, in PWS. And I know a lot of companies have tried valiantly but unsuccessfully for hyperphagia and other indications in that population. It's a tough population and a tough disease. Right now there's nothing indicated to help those patients in the U.S. market. But we believe because of that phenotype that's narcolepsy like in that population, that will have success. There are good odds for success. That's our intent with WAKIX there. David A. Amsellem - Piper Sandler & Co., Research Division - MD & Senior Research Analyst Okay. And is there a lot of off-label modafinil used in these patients? John Charles Jacobs - Harmony Biosciences Holdings, Inc. - President, CEO & Director There may be. I don't have the specific numbers for you to share today on that, but there's high levels of dissatisfaction and nothing is really working well to help patients there as far as we know. And we have a subset of patients that's using the product right now in Prader-Willi syndrome, and we had some remarkable feedback anecdotally from that patient group and patient association. They're very excited about the product and thrilled to be working with us to help bring it forward in the U.S. David A. Amsellem - Piper Sandler & Co., Research Division - MD & Senior Research Analyst Okay. And then in myotonic dystrophy, a similar question, how challenging is the EDS? How big is the subgroup? What kind of usage of legacy agents do you typically see? John Charles Jacobs - Harmony Biosciences Holdings, Inc. - President, CEO & Director Well, there's over 150,000 patients or so believed to be living with that disease in the United States. And whether it's type 1 or 2, DM1 or DM2, so to speak, they all have a significant unmet need. And we believe, similarly, mechanistically that WAKIX has a good opportunity to succeed there with EDS. And there's a wide spectrum of patients there who could really use the help. That's a pretty big patient population within the orphan space, as you know. And that's an example of Pillar 2 of our growth strategy for the company. And that gets to a little bit, David, on business development. And I know we have a few minutes left here together. But like I said, Harmony is not just a sleep company or a narcolepsy company. That's where we're starting, and it's a very important place to start. And those patients need us, and we believe we're making a difference in their life. But we have a 3 pillar of growth strategy to grow our company and our business. And that first pillar is continued success with the launch of WAKIX in the U.S. for narcolepsy. I think we've demonstrated that strongly, and we'll continue to do so. Regardless of pandemic, we've shown 8 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. NOVEMBER 30, 2020 / 1:35PM, HRMY.OQ - Harmony Biosciences Holdings Inc at Piper Sandler Healthcare Conference (Virtual)- Pre-recorded Firside Chat quarter-on-quarter growth in our ability to execute the product launch. And as the pandemic lifts, we're excited about our ability to optimize that launch, especially now with cataplexy indication on board. And that brings me to pillar 2, which is expanding the utility of WAKIX within narcolepsy, that was adding cataplexy, and we're working on a pediatric narcolepsy indication. And then beyond to PWS, DM1 and potentially other indications, and we're looking at a myriad of indications, including IH. I know idiopathic hypersomnia is something we've been asked about. Nothing formal to disclose here, but we're looking at that among other indications. And when we're ready, we will share that. But we believe that opens up tens of thousands of additional patients in these other diseases that WAKIX could potentially help beyond general narcolepsy space. And then third, our intention is to acquire another asset, David, or more, a company or asset. We won't be a one-product company forever. Those things are hard to predict. Timing on those, they're complex interactions, but we have an intent and a strong focus on that and a team that's dedicated to that internally here in Harmony. And we're underway with our search. And when we have something exciting to share, we will. David A. Amsellem - Piper Sandler & Co., Research Division - MD & Senior Research Analyst Well, I guess, one follow-up on that topic is are you probably looking for an early-stage asset? Or are you looking for something that is post proof of concept? How should we think about that? John Charles Jacobs - Harmony Biosciences Holdings, Inc. - President, CEO & Director That's a really good question. And we're Harmony strengths. We're not a preclinical company. We're not a very shop. But our strengths are on any stage of clinical. So our clinical team is remarkably strong, and we have a good regulatory team as well. We've shown that. So any clinical-stage asset from 1 through 3 we can take, bring that through the regulatory process and then successfully launch it commercially. We could also take an in-line or commercial-ready asset as well. So anything from Phase I on, we're game. And the key is that rare orphan neuro, it fits within our current level of expertise. We want to be able to leverage the existing commercial footprint, David, the existing recent experience we have in Harmony without an exponential increase in our cost, in our expenses and in our commercial footprint. There's a lot of overlap in neurology, psychiatry with these diseases and our current call footprint that we intend to leverage. Okay. David A. Amsellem - Piper Sandler & Co., Research Division - MD & Senior Research Analyst All right. Well, it looks like we're just about out of time, but really appreciate you taking the time to speak with us. We covered a lot of ground. So thanks, John, again, for your time, and I'll wrap up the discussion. John Charles Jacobs - Harmony Biosciences Holdings, Inc. - President, CEO & Director Thanks, David. We appreciate you very much. Thank you, everyone, for your time, and we look forward to speaking again soon. Take care. David A. Amsellem - Piper Sandler & Co., Research Division - MD & Senior Research Analyst All right. Take care. 9 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. NOVEMBER 30, 2020 / 1:35PM, HRMY.OQ - Harmony Biosciences Holdings Inc at Piper Sandler Healthcare Conference (Virtual)- Pre-recorded Firside Chat DISCLAIMER Refinitiv reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes. In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized. THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES REFINITIV OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS. 2020, Refinitiv. All Rights Reserved. 13537846-2020-12-03T08:41:56.933 10 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. NOVEMBER 30, 2020 / 1:35PM, HRMY.OQ - Harmony Biosciences Holdings Inc at Piper Sandler Healthcare Conference (Virtual)- Pre-recorded Firside Chat
REFINITIV STREETEVENTS EDITED TRANSCRIPT AOUT.OQ - Q2 2021 American Outdoor Brands Inc Earnings Call EVENT DATE/TIME: DECEMBER 15, 2020 / 10:00PM GMT REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS Brian Daniel Murphy American Outdoor Brands, Inc. - President, CEO & Director Elizabeth A. Sharp American Outdoor Brands, Inc. - VP of IR H. Andrew Fulmer American Outdoor Brands, Inc. - Executive VP, CFO & Treasurer CONFERENCE CALL PARTICIPANTS James Lloyd Hardiman Wedbush Securities Inc., Research Division - MD of Equity Research John David Kernan Cowen and Company, LLC, Research Division - MD & Senior Research Analyst Mark Eric Smith Lake Street Capital Markets, LLC, Research Division - Senior Research Analyst Scott Lewis Stember CL King & Associates, Inc., Research Division - Senior VP & Senior Research Analyst PRESENTATION Operator Good day, everyone, and welcome to American Outdoor Brands, Inc. Second Quarter Fiscal 2021 Financial Results Conference Call. This call is being recorded. At this time, I would like to turn the call over to Liz Sharp, Vice President of Investor Relations, for some information about today's call. Elizabeth A. Sharp - American Outdoor Brands, Inc. - VP of IR Thank you, and good afternoon. Our comments today may contain predictions, estimates and other forward-looking statements. Our use of words like anticipate, project, estimate, expect, intend, should, indicate, suggest, believe, and other similar expressions is intended to identify those forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements also include statements regarding our product development, focus, objectives, strategies and vision; our strategic evolution; our market share and market demand for our products; market and inventory conditions related to our products and in our industry in general; and growth opportunities and trends. Our forward-looking statements represent our current judgment about the future, and they are subject to various risks and uncertainties. Risk factors and other considerations that could cause our actual results to be materially different are described in our securities filings. You can find those documents as well as a replay of this call on our website at aob.com. Today's call contains time-sensitive information that is accurate only as of this time, and we assume no obligation to update any forward-looking statements. Our actual results could differ materially from our statements today. I have a few important items to note about our comments today. First, we reference certain non-GAAP financial measures. Our non-GAAP results exclude amortization of acquired intangible assets, stock compensation, transition costs, COVID-19 expenses, related-party interest income and the tax effect related to all of those adjustments. The reconciliations of GAAP financial measures to non-GAAP financial measures, whether or not they are discussed on today's call, can be found in our filings as well as today's earnings press release, which are posted on our website. Also, when we reference EPS, we are always referencing fully diluted EPS. Joining us on today's call is Brian Murphy, President and CEO; and Andy Fulmer, Chief Financial Officer. 2 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 15, 2020 / 10:00PM, AOUT.OQ - Q2 2021 American Outdoor Brands Inc Earnings Call And with that, I'll turn it over to Brian. Brian Daniel Murphy - American Outdoor Brands, Inc. - President, CEO & Director Thanks, Liz. I'm excited to join you on today's call and share what we believe our exceptional results for our second quarter. We believe our financial performance demonstrates the diversity and innovation of our brand portfolio as it continues to capture the attention of consumers. As a result, we delivered net sales growth of over 65% and our gross margins expanded by 690 basis points to nearly 47%. Based on our performance this quarter and our outlook for the second half, today, we are raising our guidance for fiscal 2021. I want to especially thank our employees who helped us deliver outstanding results this quarter, while positioning us for an exciting, groundbreaking first year as a public company. Their hard work and commitment to the health of their coworkers, combined with our award-winning products, made it possible for consumers to continue exploring their connection with the outdoors during these challenging times. To kick things off, I think it would be helpful to share with you some of the trends that we're seeing across markets impacting our business. In general, we believe we're witnessing a new higher foundational level of consumer participation in outdoor activities, responsible firearms ownership and adjacent home-based hobbies that surround outdoor adventure. So what do I mean by that? Put simply because of restrictions surrounding COVID-19, more people have been going outside. Data suggests that there's been a meaningful shift in the number of people engaging in outdoor activities, which we believe has driven a new, higher baseline, adding to a larger installed base of long-term participants when compared to 2019. We believe American Outdoor Brands, in particular, is uniquely positioned to benefit from this shift. Let me share some market information with you to further illustrate my point. First, camping participation has been on the rise in recent years and saw further acceleration in 2020. According to a KOA study released in October, nearly 50% of campers surveyed, so they went camping for the first time ever in 2020, or for the first time in recent years. In addition, a separate study by the Outdoor Industry Association in 2019, estimated that there were 42 million campers in the U.S. This, combined with the KOA survey outlining new camper trends in 2020, suggest that overall participation this year has been extraordinary compared to prior years. Further, KOA estimates that 82% of first-time campers have children in their household, which data suggests, increases the likelihood that these new young entrants will be in the market for some time to come. Second, there is strong participation in firearms ownership in shooting sports with a record number of new entrants this year. Background check data gathered by the FBI indicates that a record number of firearms have been purchased in calendar 2020, with background checks through November 30, numbering 19 million. The National Shooting Sports Foundation estimate that 40% of those checks represent individuals, who purchased a firearm for the first time, suggesting about 8 million new consumers entered the market this year. This new and larger installed base of owners suggest strong future participation in shooting sports and the need for accessories. Third, hunting has also been on the rise this year and many states across the U.S. have seen meaningful increases in the number of new hunters. A review of 2 recent Wall Street Journal articles indicates that hunting license sales are up more than 12% nationwide from last year, according to the National Shooting Sports Foundation. If the trend continues through the end of the year, they say, those license sales translate to 1 million more hunters this year than last. Michigan alone has seen a 67% year-over-year increase in new hunters through the end of November, with hunters under the age of 17, increasing nearly 100% during the same period. The introduction of new hunters is critical to the long-term growth and participation of hunting. Lastly, fishing has seen similar trends. According to the same Wall Street Journal article, the Recreational Boating & Fishing Foundation stated that there were 3 million more licenses sold nationwide this year than last, a 14% increase. In Louisiana alone, between March and July of this year, the Louisiana Department of Wildlife and Fisheries sold approximately 60% more basic fishing and saltwater licenses than for the same period in the prior year. 3 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 15, 2020 / 10:00PM, AOUT.OQ - Q2 2021 American Outdoor Brands Inc Earnings Call In addition to creating a larger market for many of our brands, growth in hunting and fishing also has the benefit of generating more money for fish and wildlife agencies in support of wildlife management and sustainability. This, in turn, creates a more sustainable future for hunting and fishing as participants return to these activities year after year. Weather measured by the record number of new firearm owners or by the extraordinary number of consumers, who have taken their first camping trip this year, the data indicates to us that an outdoor renaissance is underway and that it effects may be long lasting. Our 4 brand lanes, Defender, Marksman, Harvester and Adventurer, position us well to capitalize on this increased participation in shooting sports, hunting, fishing and camping as well as address personal protection and home security needs. The sales momentum that began during our first quarter continued and remained steady throughout the second quarter. Net sales of over $79 million represented exceptional growth, as we benefited from the activities I just outlined, combined with the normal seasonality, namely the fall hunting and holiday seasons, which occur in our second quarter each year. We believe that sales growth across both our traditional and e-commerce channels in the quarter demonstrates that the investments we've made over time are paying off. And we continue to achieve our objectives to place our brands wherever the consumer expects to find us, whether in a store or online. This strength is especially important in times like this, where consumer spending patterns are continually changing. In the second quarter, sales in our e-commerce channels grew over 213% compared to the prior year and included a notable increase in our direct-to-consumer sales. Net sales in our traditional channels grew as well, increasing by over 34% year-over-year. Turning to profitability. Our adjusted EBITDAS performance for the quarter was also extremely strong. In addition to higher gross margins year-over-year, we delivered a greater percentage of profitability that fell to the bottom line, demonstrating, we believe, just how leverageable our business is, thanks to the unique structure of our brand lanes. I'm happy to report that during the quarter, we experienced growth across nearly all of our 20 brands and within each of the major activities we serve. In fact, nearly half of our brands experienced triple-digit sales growth in the quarter. Furthermore, of our top 4 selling products in the quarter, each came from 1 of our 4 brand lanes, demonstrating the diversity that we have built across our business. Our brand lanes provide us with what we believe is an ideal competitive advantage for developing exciting, on trend and highly innovative new products year after year that turn new consumers into lasting advocates as we take our brands from niche to known. In fact, it's not uncommon for us to launch over 300 new products annually. And as I've shared before, that process is rooted in our dock-and-unlock strategy. Once a brand is docked into 1 of 4 brand lanes, we can then begin to unlock a brand's true potential by leveraging the respective lanes' resources. Including brand marketing, product development, sourcing and e-commerce. Our dock-and-unlock process is proprietary, was developed internally. And we believe provides a meaningful moat for our brands as they grow. Our continued entry into new, larger addressable markets utilizing this strategy continues to bear fruit as our brands progress along their transformation. Today, I want to provide you with some examples, starting with the home-grown favorite, one where we believe that best growth is yet to come. In March of this year, we launched our newest brand, MEAT! Your Maker. This is a bold, fun and contemporary brand that offers an innovative and affordable line of meat processing equipment, such as grinders, slicers and dehydrators, sold direct to consumer at meatyourmaker.com. While the entire product line was conceived within our Harvester brand lane to address the meat processing needs of hunters. We are excited to share that these products are finding their way into home kitchens as well. Following the field of table trend, and the desire of consumers to control every aspect of processing the food they harvest, developed organically, completely in-house and launched just 9 months ago. MEAT! Your Maker has gone from literally nonexistent to self-sufficient, quickly becoming a multimillion-dollar brand in our portfolio, and it's just getting started. We believe we have several brands in-house that harbor the same exciting potential. In fact, based on our research and consumer studies, we believe that most of our brands remain under infancy and have yet to be fully explored. Specifically, this translates into 3 distinct priorities: first, expanding our brands by growing into new product categories; second, entering new customer channels of distribution; and third, entering entirely new and larger addressable markets. 4 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 15, 2020 / 10:00PM, AOUT.OQ - Q2 2021 American Outdoor Brands Inc Earnings Call We believe this strategy provides our brands with significant runway for long-term growth, and the dock-and-unlock strategy is designed to unleash that growth. Situated within our Harvester brand lane is BOG, a brand with its origins in the shining sticks and rests used in hunting. That is well on its way to becoming a broader lifestyle hunting brand with versatile products that are engineered for the unknown. One of our newest product launches, which also enters us into the large game camera product category, demonstrates this evolution perfectly. For those of you who are unfamiliar with game cameras, these devices allow the user to monitor wildlife activity in a hunting area, and they represent a significant dollar investment for most hunters. Introduced in 2020, our Blood Moon game camera recently received a top-rated ranking from trailcampro.com, which is considered by many to be one of the leading reviewers of game camera performance and testing. Here's what they like, and I quote "Excellence photos and videos. 20-plus months of battery life and insanely fast detection capability." And we didn't just create a game camera for the sake of it. We built ours from the ground up to include a patent-pending removable viewing screen, that allows the user to quickly adjust camera settings and flip through pictures on the fly without logging into their computer. Next up is an example from our Defender brand lane. Our lockdown brand, began at the line of vault accessories, such as dehumidifying rods and vault organizers. Today, it is in the process of expanding beyond the vault with products that help consumers secure their lifestyle. Our new patent-pending Lockdown Puck, recently received the Guns and Ammo gun tech of the year award for 2020. With built-in WiFi, the Puck pairs with a free Logic App that allows the user to remotely monitor the humidity, temperature and security status of any safe, cabinet or other storage area. The Puck allows the consumer to know that their firearms, jewelry or other valuables are safe and secure from anywhere in the world. Lastly, in our Adventurer lane, we are excited to include our UST brand, which provides another example of taking one of our brands from niche to known. UST has recently undergone a major brand relaunch. With its origins and camp accessories, such as lanterns and fire starters, we rebranded UST to expand into a broader offering that includes new, innovative and higher ASP items geared around the camp lifestyle, such as tents, sleeping bags and mattress pads. Let me highlight one of our especially exciting new products, the Monarch Sleeping Bag. The cacoon-like monarch lends itself to a wide variety of environmental conditions, with patent-pending wing sections that allow the user to transition from a 17-degree bag to a 37-degree bag. The wings can also be detached and used as a pillow. This fall, backpacker.com listed our UST Monarch Sleeping Bag as the #1 item on their list of the 27 best gifts for backpackers of 2020. These awards not only demonstrate the level of innovation that exists as a result of our brand lane structure, but they punctuate the very exciting path that these brands travel, as they evolve from niche to known. And with that, I'll ask Andy to cover the financial results. Andy? H. Andrew Fulmer - American Outdoor Brands, Inc. - Executive VP, CFO & Treasurer Thanks, Brian. I'm excited to share insights into what we believe are exceptional results for our Q2. We showed significant top line growth, exceeded our own expectations with gross margins, and we're able to leverage our fixed operating expenses to yield almost 20% adjusted EBITDAS margins. Net sales for the quarter were $79.1 million compared to $40.7 million in the prior year, an increase of approximately 66%. As Brian noted, almost half of our 20 brands experienced growth of over 100%, with nearly all brands showing some level of growth over last year. This performance was driven by the increased participation in outdoor activities as well as our continued discipline with certain retailers to take a more balanced approach to their ongoing replenishment orders as we've discussed on earlier calls. We believe this approach allows our shipments to be better aligned to underlying consumer demand at retail. Net sales in our e-commerce channels increased 213.4% over the prior year to $26.2 million. As a reminder, our e-commerce channels include our direct-to-consumer sales. They also include sales to retailer customers that do not traditionally operate a physical brick-and-mortar store, but instead, generate most of their sales from consumer purchases on their retail websites. Sales in our traditional channels were $52.9 million, an increase of 34.3% over the prior year quarter. As Brian mentioned, we have made significant investments over time to ensure our brands are located where the consumer expects to find us. Whether that is in a physical store, our retailer's website or on our own branded online storefronts. We believe these results reflect our success in those efforts. 5 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 15, 2020 / 10:00PM, AOUT.OQ - Q2 2021 American Outdoor Brands Inc Earnings Call Our Q2 gross margins were 46.9%, a 690 basis point increase from gross margins of 40% last year. We participated in some annual promotional programs in certain product categories as originally planned, and margins were unfavorably impacted by increased tariff costs and inventory reserves. All of that said, however, favorable product mix and the general lack of promotions on other products greatly offset these decreases and drove margins to levels that we haven't achieved since the introduction of tariffs. We have previously discussed our initiative to discount certain slower moving inventory in order to convert that product to cash. We originally expected a portion of those sales to occur in our Q2, but due to shifts in timing, they'll now occur in the second half of the year. That initiative commenced in our current Q3, and so far, we have sold over $2 million of this slower moving inventory with a goal of selling a total of $5 million to $6 million across Q3 and Q4. When they occur, we expect these sales will yield minimal gross margins. And of course, we have already included that impact in our updated guidance. In the quarter, GAAP operating expenses were $27.5 million compared to $20.6 million in Q2 last year. The $6.9 million increase included $3.1 million of variable selling and distribution costs, about $740,000 from product development initiatives, over $600,000 from the build-out of our brand websites and the creation and distribution of marketing content and $1.6 million from compensation-related expenses in G&A. Intangible asset amortization decreased approximately $700,000 from $4.7 million to $4 million. Consistent with Q1, our Q2 operating expenses were lower than planned, largely due to the impact of the pandemic, which obviously drove meaningful restrictions in travel and the elimination of most trade shows, including SHOT Show, where companies like ours launched the bulk of their new shooting sports and hunting related products. In order to ensure that we keep our marketing momentum going, we plan to take those funds and redirect them into developing rich media content in support of our new product launches. Non-GAAP operating expenses in Q2 were $22.5 million compared to $15.3 million last year. Non-GAAP operating expenses exclude intangible amortization, stock compensation and certain nonrecurring expenses as they occur. For the second quarter, GAAP EPS was $0.52 as compared with an EPS loss of $0.03 last year. Our non-GAAP EPS was $0.77 as compared to $0.20 in the year ago quarter. These figures are based on our fully diluted share count of approximately 14 million shares. Adjusted EBITDAS came in at $15.8 million for a 19.9% EBITDAS margin compared to an 11.7% EBITDAS margin last year. The increase was driven by improvements in gross margin noted previously and what we believe is significant leverage of the fixed cost investments we have made in the business. Turning to the balance sheet and cash flow. On August 24, we completed the spin-off and were capitalized with $25 million from our former parent company. We generated approximately $3.9 million in cash from operations during the quarter, and we had cash outflows of $1.1 million for capital expenditures and patent costs. We ended the quarter with a cash position of $33.9 million. Accounts receivable increased by approximately $16 million in the quarter, driven by the sequential increase and quarterly net sales of roughly $29 million. At the end of Q2, we successfully completed 2 initiatives that will help reduce our overall DSOs and should provide meaningful improvements in cash flow going forward. Inventory increased by approximately $4 million, mainly due to our previously discussed investment to help mitigate potential pandemic-related supply chain risks, increased tariff costs that were capitalized as well as new products arriving for launch in calendar 2021. Here, I'd like to take a step back for a minute and talk about our long-term plans for inventory management and what you can expect to see. You'll recall, Brian mentioned that we are focusing on higher ASP items in 2 of our brands. This initiative is actually taking place across many of our brands, and that higher ASP focus will increase our inventory value somewhat. In addition, as Brian noted, we launched a large number of new products each year, and our pipeline remains robust. Therefore, our inventory will reflect our preparation for those launches. We anticipate that new product timing and its velocity, along with our focus on higher ASP products, will combine to elevate our inventory values over time. While we anticipate this activity will be somewhat offset by sales of the slower-moving inventory I mentioned earlier, we believe it will still increase the inventory dollars on our balance sheet. That said, in total, we are actively managing our working capital turns, remaining focused on maximizing our cash flow. 6 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 15, 2020 / 10:00PM, AOUT.OQ - Q2 2021 American Outdoor Brands Inc Earnings Call At the end of Q2, we had no borrowings on our $50 million asset-based line of credit. As a reminder, this facility also provides an additional $15 million of availability under certain conditions. The combination of revolver capacity and the roughly $34 million of cash on our balance sheet gives us nearly $100 million of capital. We believe this level of resource prepares us adequately to support, both our organic and inorganic initiatives, as we remain actively involved in looking for potential complementary acquisitions. Finally, we continue to expect approximately $4 million in total CapEx spending for the fiscal year, with a portion of that being onetime in nature related to the spin-off. Now turning to our guidance. We are pleased to announce increases in our net sales, EPS and adjusted EBITDAS guidance. Based on financial performance through Q2, and our expectations for continued strength in the second half of the year, we are now estimating full year net sales in the range of $235 million to $245 million, which would represent growth of roughly 40% to 46% year-over-year. With net sales in that range, we would expect full year GAAP EPS in the range of $0.52 to $0.70 and non-GAAP EPS in the range of $1.49 to $1.67. We would also expect adjusted EBITDAS in the range of $34 million to $36 million, which would represent growth of approximately 176% to 193% year-over-year. While our non-GAAP EPS guidance at the midpoint implies an increase of $0.45 in the second half of the year, you'll notice that our GAAP EPS is expected to decline. This is attributable to approximately $8 million of acquisition-related intangible asset amortization as well as approximately $1.5 million in stock compensation that we anticipate, we will record between Q3 and Q4. This effectively will take our GAAP EPS from its current $0.65 year-to-date to an estimated end of year midpoint of $0.61. Our Q2 tax rate of 24.7% includes discrete items related to the spin-off. And our guidance reflects a tax rate for the remainder of the year of approximately 27%. Lastly, all of our estimates are based on our forecasted fully diluted share count of approximately 14.2 million shares. Brian? Brian Daniel Murphy - American Outdoor Brands, Inc. - President, CEO & Director Thank you, Andy. Calendar 2020 has delivered us a set of unprecedented circumstances. Among them is what we believe to be a new foundational level of participation in outdoor activities and firearms ownership. This healthy market has provided us with an opportunity to demonstrate how our unique brand lane structure, combined with our dock-and-unlock strategy, allows us to expand our reach by maintaining a connection with the consumer and using that dialogue to fuel our innovative process. We believe our approach provides a truly unique and leverageable platform that will allow us to continue harnessing the power of our growing brand portfolio to drive our future growth and profitability. With that, operator, please open the call for questions from our analysts. QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS Operator (Operator Instructions) First question comes from Mark Smith with Lake Street Capital Markets. Mark Eric Smith - Lake Street Capital Markets, LLC, Research Division - Senior Research Analyst A couple of questions for me here. Any categories or brands that were supply-constrained or overly supply-constrained during the quarter? 7 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 15, 2020 / 10:00PM, AOUT.OQ - Q2 2021 American Outdoor Brands Inc Earnings Call Brian Daniel Murphy - American Outdoor Brands, Inc. - President, CEO & Director Mark, this is Brian. So no, that's the short answer. We -- our supply chain was in good order this quarter, and we had no disruptions. Mark Eric Smith - Lake Street Capital Markets, LLC, Research Division - Senior Research Analyst Okay. And then one thing that we've heard from some retailers in the space is strong out of season demand for certain products, for example, this late fall, early winter fishing products doing really well. Can you talk about if you're kind of seeing these same trends in any categories like BUBBA or camping, as we kind of move into colder months? Brian Daniel Murphy - American Outdoor Brands, Inc. - President, CEO & Director Yes. That's a great question. We -- kind of glad you asked that, we are, frankly, across the entire portfolio. I made mention that all 4 of our brand lanes were represented in our top 4 selling products when we did that review prior to this call, and it was pretty evenly distributed. So certainly, BUBBA would fall into that same trend. So we -- so camping, sleeping bags, mattress pads, tents, the BUBBA products, brands like Schrade, which is typically more of a summer brand, have done well even well into the fall. Mark Eric Smith - Lake Street Capital Markets, LLC, Research Division - Senior Research Analyst Excellent. And then as we look at e-commerce and the growth that you've had there, can you guys walk through, at all, any of the impact that, that had on gross profit margin or even on an EBITDAS margin basis? H. Andrew Fulmer - American Outdoor Brands, Inc. - Executive VP, CFO & Treasurer Mark, it's Andy. We can't really get into too much detail there. As Brian said in the prepared remarks, our direct-to-consumer was up. That was again, great result. And obviously, those have higher margins. Outside of that, I can't really get into too much detail. Mark Eric Smith - Lake Street Capital Markets, LLC, Research Division - Senior Research Analyst Okay. And the last one for me. You guys talked a little bit about some new places, new addressable markets that you're really looking at. Can you give us any more insight into kind of what you're looking at what are these hot new categories you think maybe are? Brian Daniel Murphy - American Outdoor Brands, Inc. - President, CEO & Director Sure. So are you asking specifically about markets or some of the new product categories because we viewed it to a little bit differently. Mark Eric Smith - Lake Street Capital Markets, LLC, Research Division - Senior Research Analyst Why don't we talk about both of them then? 8 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 15, 2020 / 10:00PM, AOUT.OQ - Q2 2021 American Outdoor Brands Inc Earnings Call Brian Daniel Murphy - American Outdoor Brands, Inc. - President, CEO & Director Okay. Sure. So on the product side, so BOG was a good example of -- BOG, one of our hunting brands, definitely focused on the lifestyle side of hunting. And going from those very specific products to begin with in shooting sticks and rests to now getting into areas like game cameras, and which I mentioned is a very large portion of the hunting purchases outside of the firearm itself. And also, BOG has now gotten into like ground blinds. We weren't there a year ago, but now getting into each of those different areas. They represent big categories in hunting and significant wallet share for those hunters. So again, kind of progressing along where these brands have permission to play. And I can give you more examples. But that's a great one for how we're getting into some of these new product categories where our brands have permission to play. New addressable markets. So we talked about the Lockdown Puck, getting into, we say, rethinking the vault is how we describe it internally. And so going from vault accessories, something very specific for a specific use, and we were a market share leader there inside of vault. To now thinking outside of that and positioning Lockdown as more of a techy, so high-tech patent-pending technology with our logic system. So that now -- it reaches outside of that traditional firearm owner and is accessible to other consumers who maybe want to secure something, maybe it's their wine cellar, maybe it's humidor, something like that. So those are much bigger markets, MEAT! another great example. Meat processing is estimated at $10 billion and obviously includes a wide array of different products. And you start getting into talking to markets like commercial and restaurants. We have a restaurant here in town in Colombia that uses our meat processing equipment. They love it so much. It's all commercial-grade product. So getting into some of those markets, some of our brands are being pulled more and more into those that we're finding, which was all part of our plan as -- and that's based to the dock-and-unlock strategy. Operator Our next question comes from John Kernan with Cowen. John David Kernan - Cowen and Company, LLC, Research Division - MD & Senior Research Analyst Great. Andy, Brian, congrats on the momentum and the upside on the quarter and for the year. I was just curious, what -- can you walk us through what categories and brands, in particular, drove this material upside to your guidance relative to where it was 3 months ago, on both the sales and really the EBITDAS line? Brian Daniel Murphy - American Outdoor Brands, Inc. - President, CEO & Director Yes. John, this is Brian. I would say there hasn't been a meaningful shift in our brand portfolios. If you look at the 4 brand lanes, Marksman, Defender, Harvester and Adventurer. We haven't seen a significant shift outside of any seasonal changes. So obviously, in the fall, we tend to sell more hunting products. In the spring, we tend to sell more BUBBA, and UST going into the summer camping season. So outside of some of those seasonal trends, we really haven't seen a shift in our portfolio. Does that answer your question? John David Kernan - Cowen and Company, LLC, Research Division - MD & Senior Research Analyst A bit. I mean, it sounds like it was pretty broad-based. There wasn't any one brand or category. What was seasonally strong was strong and now as we look into spring, you expect that to kind of continue in the more seasonal spring and summer stuff? 9 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 15, 2020 / 10:00PM, AOUT.OQ - Q2 2021 American Outdoor Brands Inc Earnings Call Brian Daniel Murphy - American Outdoor Brands, Inc. - President, CEO & Director Yes. Yes, that's correct. H. Andrew Fulmer - American Outdoor Brands, Inc. - Executive VP, CFO & Treasurer And John, this is Andy. I can answer the EBITDAS question. So when you look at -- you kind of take the guidance, last guidance to this guidance, it implies almost a 38% contribution down to EBITDAS. That really -- as we talked about in the prepared remarks, that really goes to the leverageability of our platform. So our fixed costs were fixed. And you see that as revenues rise, we're able to really pull a lot of that down to the EBITDAS line. Brian Daniel Murphy - American Outdoor Brands, Inc. - President, CEO & Director Yes. And John, maybe -- I'm just thinking more about your question. I think, I have something here that maybe more helpful. So if you think about the increase, let's say, in personal protection and 8 million, an estimated 8 million or so new firearm owners entering the market. That trend certainly impacts brands like Crimson Trace, which is all about aiming solutions and really helping, in particular, new buyers, as they enter the market. And then as they go to the range and practice firing that new firearm brands like Caldwell, which is all about owning the range. And helping them eliminate variables that makes them missed. Caldwell, Tipton, Wheeler, Frankford, so gunsmithing tools, gun cleaning, all of those are part of that kind of phase 2 after that initial buyer purchases of that firearm. And then we talked about the fishing, camping, hunting trends. So this fall, huge increase in hunting participation. So we certainly saw a bump from that with our -- with brands exactly like BOG and many others. So hopefully, that gets a little bit more context to my original answer. John David Kernan - Cowen and Company, LLC, Research Division - MD & Senior Research Analyst Yes, that is helpful. It sounds like your firearms hunting, fishing, really strong, and that really plays across your whole portfolio. Andy, maybe can you walk us through the puts and takes to gross margin and SG&A for the quarter, but also embedded in the guidance, you talked about the leverageability and the fixed cost leverage that you're generating now on this tremendous sales growth. So maybe just a little more detail and color as much as you can give us on expectations for gross margin, SG&A in the back half? H. Andrew Fulmer - American Outdoor Brands, Inc. - Executive VP, CFO & Treasurer Yes. No, it's a great question, John. On the gross margin side, during the quarter, as I said in the remarks, we were pleased to see -- we participated in our annual promotional programs that we always do in certain product categories. But some of the other types of promotions, again, really weren't necessary kind of dovetailing from Q1. So definitely favorable margins in Q2 with respect to that. The rest of the year, the way that I would kind of look at the rest of the year is, I would probably estimate -- we expect probably mid-40s as far as margin percentage. And that's really driven by what I said in the comments about the $5 million to $6 million of revenue on that slower moving inventory that we expect to kind of little to no margin on. So that has a pretty decent effect on gross margin percentage when you look at it like that. And then with respect to OpEx, I would say, we expect Q2 to be kind of a peak level of OpEx, especially when you look at the variable selling and distribution costs that were related to the $79 million in revenue, and we also had some -- a number of website costs from launches that we had in the quarter. So that will drop a little bit going forward. But I think with that, hopefully, you can kind of do the math based on our EPS and EBITDAS guidance. 10 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 15, 2020 / 10:00PM, AOUT.OQ - Q2 2021 American Outdoor Brands Inc Earnings Call John David Kernan - Cowen and Company, LLC, Research Division - MD & Senior Research Analyst Got it. That's helpful. Maybe one more final question for me. Just what are you most excited about as we go into -- we change seasons here and we get into spring of next year, just by brand and channel? Brian Daniel Murphy - American Outdoor Brands, Inc. - President, CEO & Director Yes. This is Brian. Obviously, for us, the Adventurer lane hits its stride coming out of the winter season into the spring. And we've got some exciting new product launches planned for those brands, in particular, that you'll see, and I think, should be well received. Like I mentioned earlier in the call, we launched upwards of more than 300 new products each year. So really, beginning in January, I would say, through April and May, you're going to see a lot of new products coming out from all of our brands and should create quite a bit of excitement across the board. But UST is one that I think very highly of we, again, went through a rebrand. We went from low ASP items to now much higher ASP items. Those products, tents, sleeping bags, mattress pads have been very well received by our customer base. And in fact, have drawn a lot of interest there from certain large customers that we can report on more down the road. But that's where we're excited at. And then you've got brands like MEAT! Your Maker, that is really appealing to a trend that transcends beyond just the hunting season. And people -- just personal interest in this field to table trend where they want to, again, control every aspect of preparing their own meat. And then putting it on the grill. That's just -- they're becoming much more intimate in that process. So I'd say, it's good, really need to watch. And I think our brands are well positioned. Operator Our next question comes from Scott Stember with CL King. Scott Lewis Stember - CL King & Associates, Inc., Research Division - Senior VP & Senior Research Analyst Congrats on a great start to being a publicly traded company. You guys earlier talked about some new initiatives that you're really focusing on. One of them was new distribution areas. Can you maybe go a little bit more into that? Brian Daniel Murphy - American Outdoor Brands, Inc. - President, CEO & Director Sure. Scott, this is Brian. So when I talk about new customer channels of distribution, we have brands such as Hooyman. So Hooyman started out -- again, this is also a good niche to known story, but Hooyman started out primarily selling tree saws used for clearing shooting lanes for hunters. So they would go up in their stand. They want to make sure their shooting lane is clear of any branches. And that's where the brand started. But as part of our dock-and-unlock process, we saw Hooyman more as a land management brand that could extend well beyond just tree saws. And so now we have, in the last year, we've come out with rakes, shovels, mallets, machetes, things like that, that have a very distinct grip, that has become pretty popular, we call it the H grip. Well that product, which would have been found traditionally in a sporting good -- or sport specialty store, I should say, is now being pulled into new channels distribution. So you can now find that brand in home and hardware type channels. When a year ago, you really wouldn't find them there, honestly. So areas like that where some of our brands are being pulled into those other sections. Wheeler is another great example. Wheeler was really known as a gunsmithing brand, but we're finding that consumers use that brand, use those products on their cars, fixing their cars, they use them on DIY 11 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 15, 2020 / 10:00PM, AOUT.OQ - Q2 2021 American Outdoor Brands Inc Earnings Call projects in the home. And so more of those requests are finding their ways to our customers and as a result, that's where those brands are beginning to pop up. Scott Lewis Stember - CL King & Associates, Inc., Research Division - Senior VP & Senior Research Analyst Got it. And just taking a step back, bigger picture, you talked about some of the new foundational layers within the market that should stick. But now with a vaccine coming around, could you just talk to that narrative of people being worried that with the vaccine coming out, you're going to see a whole bunch of people ditching their outdoor -- newly found outdoor activities. So essentially, just talk about the stickiness that you see to what's happening here in the years to come? Brian Daniel Murphy - American Outdoor Brands, Inc. - President, CEO & Director Sure, sure. This is Brian, again. I would say, this is my perspective, no one knows quite what's going to happen. I have looked at quite a few surveys, whether it's camping, fishing, some of the industry associations out there have done a good job of trying to capture what portion of this is going to be sticky, long term. And it appears the overwhelming majority, at least the studies that I've looked at, show that people still intend to engage in these activities. And also, I believe that there's been a -- there's already been a wallet shift. So if you look at some of the macro data out there and look at consumer spending just before COVID, and you can look at different parts of the U.S., so credit card and debit card spending. And there's a massive drop-off in kind of March, April time frame. And then it begins to slowly come back up to really pre COVID levels. It's pretty remarkable. And to me, that says that there has already been a wallet share shift of sorts, where some of those folks were spending that money on other areas of entertainment, maybe it's going to a movie theater, going to sporting events. And obviously, there'll be some return that once a vaccine is widely distributed. But it's people, at least, again, what we're seeing, intend to continue this, now that they have this new found activity that a lot of times, they didn't have the time for before or to even try. And you look at camping, 50% of the people that they surveyed, KOA surveyed said that they went camping for the first time ever or for the first time in recent years. So it's just -- it's been a big shot in the arm for the industry. I know other public companies said the same thing. And it just bodes well for the long term viability. One last thing on this is just the youth. There was a statistic. I can't recall the source of hand, but essentially, it pulled adults who fish and asked them, when -- did you start fishing before the age of 12? 91% of the respondents said that they had started fishing before the age of 12. And so you can see there is a very sticky component to a lot of these activities. That makes us very excited about the long-term growth in a new baseline. Scott Lewis Stember - CL King & Associates, Inc., Research Division - Senior VP & Senior Research Analyst Got it. And just a quick last question. In the back half of the year. Is there anything you can give us as far as cadence between the 2 quarters. Should we assume, I guess, essentially evenly split across the board, whether it's revenues and margins. Anything you can give us? H. Andrew Fulmer - American Outdoor Brands, Inc. - Executive VP, CFO & Treasurer Yes, Scott, this is Andy. What I would say is, if you look at historically, our -- the trends quarterly on revenue are pretty -- are relatively predictable when you go like fiscal '18, '19, '20, our peak is always in Q2, and then it kind of evens off out in Q3 and 4. You might see -- we believe that Q3 will probably be a little higher than Q4, but you can kind of take a look at historical trends. 12 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 15, 2020 / 10:00PM, AOUT.OQ - Q2 2021 American Outdoor Brands Inc Earnings Call Operator (Operator Instructions) Our next question comes from the line of James Hardiman with Wedbush. James Lloyd Hardiman - Wedbush Securities Inc., Research Division - MD of Equity Research So a couple of follow-ups on the guidance. Obviously, you put up an unbelievable number here in the second quarter, $79 million in terms of revenues. The back half guidance assumes a pretty big step down from there. You touched on this a little bit. How much of that is seasonality versus just conservatism, hard to anticipate just how long this surge can last? H. Andrew Fulmer - American Outdoor Brands, Inc. - Executive VP, CFO & Treasurer Yes, James, this is Andy. It's a great question. When you take a look at Q1 and Q2 last year, those quarters were both down. Q1 was down almost 11%. Q2 was down almost 15%. So when you look at what we've done so far, and I don't want to take anything away from what we've done, but the comps were slightly easier. Probably the better comp is to actually go back to fiscal '19. And if you go back to fiscal '19, those numbers in Q1, our current year numbers, '21 to '19 go 35% and 41%. So it kind of -- it starts to make sense. As you look at our implied growth in the second half of the year is almost 28%. So that kind of gives you a little more perspective when you take a look at fiscal '19. James Lloyd Hardiman - Wedbush Securities Inc., Research Division - MD of Equity Research Got it. That's helpful. And then I wanted to dig in a little bit. I think it was a comment from you, Brian. When you were talking about some of the brand lanes and the idea that certain purchases would be maybe concurrent with a new firearm for people that are new to the sport versus follow-on. Can you dig into that a little bit? I'm curious how much of a ripple effect that there might be from all of these new customers they got into not only firearms, but maybe some of the other products, right? As you had that surge in demand. Is there sort of a secondary effect from some of your brand lanes that we should be keeping in mind? Brian Daniel Murphy - American Outdoor Brands, Inc. - President, CEO & Director Sure. So I would -- so I will start kind of in that pathway with the consumer walks into the store. And I would say there's kind of 2 -- I'll start with Crimson Trace in this example. So Crimson Trace, we sell Crimson Trace directly to OEMs, folks like Smith & Wesson, who we have a, obviously, a great relationship with, along with other OEMs and now -- so the Crimson Trace Red Dots, for example, are gaining a lot of momentum in the market. And so we've seen an increase in demand from OEM partners. So when the customer goes into that store, there's a good chance there's a Crimson Trace Red Dot on that firearm to begin with, on that hand gone. And if not, we're right there at the counter as well. So the dealer typically will try to get a sense for their comfort level and other things that they're interested in purchasing. But when it comes to aiming solutions, Crimson Trace really is the leader, in our opinion. And then from there, there are other products that consumer would look to buy, gun cases, if they're looking to -- and this is really very relevant for some of the new purchasers who tend to be a little bit more tech forward, our product like the Puck. 13 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 15, 2020 / 10:00PM, AOUT.OQ - Q2 2021 American Outdoor Brands Inc Earnings Call So they're going to have to go home, store that firearm, and they want to know that it's going to be safe and secure and have constant connectivity to that. So we're able to sell them a product like that. And then also, just as I said, like as they go along on this journey -- so those are kind of some of the brands that tend to be closer to the purchase itself. But then, as they go along and again, go to the range when they are looking for ammo. They -- and ammo, obviously, is still very much in shortage at many retailers. They may turn to things like reloading. So reloading is -- for those on the call that don't know what that is. Basically, you're creating your own ammunition using different components. And so we sell -- under our Frankford Arsenal brand, we sell different products and accessories that allow the user to essentially make their own ammunition safely. And so now they're able to make their own ammunition, go to the range and use our Caldwell products when they get to the range, on and on and on. So it's -- that's kind of part of the process that we look at. And I think -- does that answer your question? And I think your follow-up was around... James Lloyd Hardiman - Wedbush Securities Inc., Research Division - MD of Equity Research Let me just quickly ask. And so the idea is that some of that -- those follow-up brands that you spoke to it's sort of post purchase. Do you think we're seeing the full brunt of that? Or is that yet to come? And you're right, the second part of the question was, are there other sort of brand lanes that acted in a similar way to that, where there's sort of a accessorizing as opposed to some replacement that's years down the line? Brian Daniel Murphy - American Outdoor Brands, Inc. - President, CEO & Director Sure. Okay. So I would say there -- the brands on the -- in the Marksman, Defender side, certainly, there is that pathway for the consumer from the point of purchase through to continuing to use those products. I think the timing of those is, obviously, the Defender -- I would say the Defender brand lane is more closely aligned with that initial purchase. The Marksman lane is, if I had to put a best guess out there, we've seen data in different time periods. There's a little bit of a lag. So they typically get that firearm. They'll have a gun case that they'll walk out of the store with, a lockdown product that will help secure that firearm. And then if you can get time at the range, which maybe it's a month or 2, but go to the range, and then they'll see people wearing hearing protection and eye protection, they're like, yes, I should get some of that. And so that's when we make that sale typically. And they'll also see a field of green, a sea of green when they go to the range. And that means that a lot of people are using Caldwell shooting rests to help zero in their firearms. And then they'll go, I should probably look into that. I suppose that would make me better at aiming and setting my rifle or my hand gun. So I think to put a book in on the question, we can see that anywhere from 1 month to, I would say, 6 months, and I think that's most of the sweet spot after that first firearm purchase. And then for the other brand lanes, like BUBBA, I'm just -- I'll just go Adventurer, first. So like in BUBBA, people will be introduced to the brand typically through a fillet knife, where they'll go out fish, come back to the dock and to go beat the means to fillet fish. So BUBBA, in my opinion, dominates the fillet knife industry. And -- but we've taken that brand as part of this niche and now into a lifestyle fishing brand. And once they use that BUBBA knife, it has a very distinct texture we call it our Bubba Rubba, and it gets tackier as it gets wet. Well, we have that same texture on the other BUBBA products. So if you're going to go out, deep-sea fishing and you can use a BUBBA gaff for BUBBA net, which now we've done as part of expanding in some of these new product categories. 14 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 15, 2020 / 10:00PM, AOUT.OQ - Q2 2021 American Outdoor Brands Inc Earnings Call So we see certain products like that really be the entry way into the broader brand portfolio. Or -- sorry, the broader product portfolio within each of those brands. UST is another great example. They buy fire starters and lanterns, and they have a good experience with the brand. It's very -- it's high quality. And now they start venturing into some of those other products like tents and sleeping bags or the other way around. I saw a neighbor of mine this last summer. We were camping in our backyards at the same time with our kids. And I looked over and they had a good, they had a UST tent, and they were curious about some of the other products that UST makes. So it's kind of across the board. Operator That concludes our question-and-answer session for today. I'd like to turn the call back to Mr. Murphy for closing remarks. Brian Daniel Murphy - American Outdoor Brands, Inc. - President, CEO & Director Thank you, operator, and thank you, everyone, for joining us today. On behalf of all of us at American Outdoor Brands, we wish you all a very safe and healthy holiday season and a prosperous New Year. We look forward to speaking with you again next quarter. Thanks. Operator Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes today's conference call. Thank you for participating. You may now disconnect. DISCLAIMER Refinitiv reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes. In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized. THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES REFINITIV OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS. 2020, Refinitiv. All Rights Reserved. 13537857-2020-12-16T01:26:03.650 15 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. DECEMBER 15, 2020 / 10:00PM, AOUT.OQ - Q2 2021 American Outdoor Brands Inc Earnings Call
